<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Harper's New Monthly Magazine, February, 1852</title>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>June 22, 2010</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">32945</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="fr"></language>
      <language id="tr"></language>
      <language id="ar"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2010-06-22">June 22, 2010</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by David King and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Harper's</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">New Monthly Magazine</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">No. XXI.&mdash;February, 1852.&mdash;Vol. IV.</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='289'/><anchor id='Pg289'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Public Life Of Benjamin Franklin.<note place='foot'>Entered according to
Act of Congress.</note>
By Jacob Abbott.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p289.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Benjamin Franklin.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Benjamin Franklin entered upon his
career as a public man when very near the
middle of the active portion of his life. His history,
therefore, naturally divides itself into two
equal portions, each entirely distinct from the
other. Until the age of about thirty-five he was
simply a Philadelphia mechanic, discharging his
duties, however, in that capacity so gracefully
and with such brilliant success, as to invest industry,
and frugality, and all the other plain and
unpretending virtues of humble life with a sort
of poetic charm which has been the means of
commending them in the most effectual manner,
to millions of his countrymen. At length, having
accomplished in this field a work equal to the
labor of any ordinary life-time, he was by a sudden
shifting of the scene in the drama of his life,
as it were, withdrawn from it, at once and entirely,
and ushered into a wholly different sphere.
During all the latter half of his life he was almost
exclusively a public man. He was brought
forward by a peculiar combination of circumstances
into a most conspicuous position; a position,
which not only made him the object of
interest and attention to the whole civilized world,
but which also invested him with a controlling
power in respect to some of the most important
events and transactions of modern times. Thus
there lived, as it were, two Benjamin Franklins,
Benjamin Franklin the honest Philadelphia printer,
who quietly prosecuted his trade during the
first part of the eighteenth century, setting an
example of industry and thrift which was destined
afterward to exert an influence over half
the world&mdash;and Benjamin Franklin the great
American statesman, who flourished in the last
part of the same century, and occupied himself
in building and securing the foundations of what
will perhaps prove the greatest political power
that any human combination has ever formed.
It is this latter history which is to form the subject
of the present article.
</p>

<p>
It is remarkable that the first functions which
Franklin fulfilled in public life were of a military
character. When he found that his thrift and
prosperity as a citizen, and the integrity and
good sense which were so conspicuous in his
personal character, were giving him a great ascendency
among his fellow men, he naturally
began to take an interest in the welfare of the
community; and when he first began to turn his
attention in earnest to this subject, which was
about the year 1743, there were two points which
seemed to him to demand attention. One was,
the want of a college in Philadelphia; the other,
the necessity of some means of defense against
foreign invasion. Spain had been for some time
at war with England, and now France had joined
with Spain in prosecuting the war. The English
colonies in America were in imminent danger
of being attacked by the French forces. The
influence of the Friends was, however, predominant
in the colonial legislature, and no vote
could be obtained there for any military purposes;
though the governor, and a very considerable
part of the population, were extremely desirous
that suitable preparations for defending
the city should be made.
</p>

<p>
There was thus much diversity of sentiment
in the public mind, and many conflicting opinions
were expressed in private conversation; but
every thing was unsettled, and no one could tell
what it was best to undertake to do.
</p>

<p>
Under these circumstances Franklin wrote and
published a pamphlet entitled Plain Truth, placing
the defenseless condition of the colony in a
strong light, and calling upon the people to take
measures for averting the danger. This pamphlet
produced a great sensation. A meeting of
the citizens was convened. An enrollment of
the citizens in voluntary companies was proposed
and carried by acclamation. Papers were
circulated and large numbers of signatures were
<pb n='290'/><anchor id='Pg290'/>
obtained. The ladies prepared silken banners,
embroidering them with suitable devices and
presented these banners to the companies that
were formed. In a word, the whole city was
filled with military enthusiasm. The number
of men that were enrolled as the result of this
movement was ten thousand.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p290a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Silken Banners.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Such a case as this is probably wholly without
a parallel in the history of the world, when the
legislative government of a state being held back
by conscientious scruples from adopting military
measures for the public defense in a case of imminent
danger, the whole community rise voluntarily
at the call of a private citizen, to organize
and arm themselves under the executive power.
There was, it is true, very much in the peculiar
circumstances of the occasion to give efficiency
to the measures which Franklin adopted, but
there are very few men who, even in such circumstances,
would have conceived of such a design,
or could have accomplished it, if they had
made the attempt.
</p>

<p>
The officers of the Philadelphia regiment, organized
from these volunteers, chose Franklin
their colonel. He however declined the appointment,
considering himself, as he said, not qualified
for it. They then appointed another man.
Franklin, however, continued to be foremost in
all the movements and plans for maturing and
carrying into effect the military arrangements
that were required.
</p>

<p>
Among other things, he conceived the idea of
constructing a battery on the bank of the river
below the town, to defend it from ships that might
attempt to come up the river. To construct this
battery, and to provide cannon for it, would require
a considerable amount of money; and in
order to raise the necessary funds, Franklin proposed
a public lottery. He considered the emergency
of the crisis, as it would seem, a sufficient
justification for a resort to such a measure. The
lottery was arranged, and the tickets offered for
sale. They were taken very fast, for the whole
community were deeply interested in the success
of the enterprise. The money was thus raised
and the battery was erected. The walls of it
were made of logs framed together, the space
between being filled with earth.
</p>

<p>
The great difficulty, however, was to obtain
cannon for the armament of the battery. The
associates succeeded at length in finding a few
pieces of old ordnance in Boston which they
could buy. These they procured and mounted
in their places on the battery. They then sent
to England to obtain more; and in the mean time
Franklin was dispatched as a commissioner to
New York, to attempt to borrow some cannon
there, to be used until those which they expected
to receive from England should arrive. His
application was in the end successful, though
the consent of Governor Clinton, to whom the
application was made, was gained in a somewhat
singular way. <q>At first,</q> says Franklin,
<q>he refused us peremptorily; but at dinner with
his council, where there was great drinking of
Madeira wine, as the custom of the place then
was, he softened by degrees, and said he would
lend us <emph>six</emph>. After a few more bumpers he advanced
to <emph>ten</emph>; and at length he very good-naturedly
conceded <hi rend='italic'>eighteen</hi>.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p290b.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Gun Guard.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The pieces thus borrowed were eighteen pounders,
all in excellent order and well mounted on
suitable carriages. They were soon transported
to Philadelphia and set up in their places on the
battery, where they remained while the war lasted.
A company was organized to mount guard
there by day and night. Franklin himself was
one of this guard, and he regularly performed
his duty as a common soldier, in rotation with
the rest. In fact, one secret of the great ascendency
which he acquired at this time over all
those who were in any way connected with him,
was the unassuming and unpretending spirit
which he manifested. He never sought to appropriate
to himself the credit of what he did,
but always voluntarily assumed his full share of
all labors and sacrifices that were required.
</p>

<pb n='291'/><anchor id='Pg291'/>

<p>
The members of the society of Friends were
very numerous in Philadelphia at this time, and
they held a controlling influence in the legislature.
And inasmuch as the tenets of their society expressly
forbade them to engage in war or war-like
operations of any kind, no vote could be obtained
in the legislature to provide for any military
preparations. The Friends, however, were
not disposed to insist so
tenaciously upon their views
as to be unwilling that others
should act as they saw fit.
It was even thought that
many of them were willing
to encourage and promote
the measures which Franklin
was pursuing for the defense
of the province, so
far as they could do so without
directly violating their
professed principles by acting
personally in furtherance
of them.
</p>

<p>
Various instances occurred
of this tacit acquiescence
on the part of the
Friends in the defensive
preparations which were
going forward. It was proposed for example
that the fire-company which has already been
alluded to, should invest their surplus funds in
lottery tickets, for the battery. The Friends
would not <emph>vote</emph> for this measure, but a sufficient
number of them absented themselves from the
meeting to allow the others to carry it. In the
legislature moreover, they would sometimes grant
money <q><emph>for the king's use</emph></q> the tacit understanding
being that the funds were to be employed for
military purposes. At one time, before the question
of appropriating the surplus funds of the fire
company was disposed of, Franklin had an idea&mdash;which
he proposed to one of his friends&mdash;of
introducing a resolution at a meeting of the company,
for purchasing a <emph>fire-engine</emph> with the money.
<q>And then,</q> said he, <q>we will buy a <emph>cannon</emph>
with it, for no one can deny that that is a <emph>fire-engine</emph>.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p291a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Indian Bonfire.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Soon after this Franklin went as a commissioner
from the government, to make a treaty
with a tribe of Indians at Carlisle, in the interior
of Pennsylvania. On the night after the treaty
was concluded, a great uproar was heard in the
Indian camp, just without the town. The commissioners
went to see what was the matter.
They found that the Indians had made a great
bonfire in the middle of the square around which
their tents were pitched, and that all the company,
men and women, were around it, shouting,
quarreling and fighting. The spectacle of their
dark colored bodies, half naked, and seen only by
the gloomy light of the fire, running after and
beating one another with firebrands, accompanied
by the most unearthly yellings, presented
a dreadful scene. The frenzy of the people was
so great that there was no possibility of restraining
it, and the commissioners were obliged
to retire and leave the savages to themselves.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p291b.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
After this Franklin returned to Philadelphia
and devoted his attention to a variety of plans
for the improvement of
the city, in all of which his
characteristic ingenuity in
devising means for the accomplishment
of his plans,
and his calm and quiet, but
efficient energy in carrying
them into effect, were as
conspicuous as ever. One
of the first enterprises in
which he engaged was the
founding of a hospital for
the reception and cure of
sick persons. The institution
which he was the means
of establishing has since become
one of the most prominent
and useful institutions
of the country. He caused
a petition to be prepared and presented to the
Assembly, asking for a grant from the public funds
in aid of this undertaking. The country members
were at first opposed to the plan, thinking that it
would mainly benefit the city. In order to diminish
<pb n='292'/><anchor id='Pg292'/>
this opposition, Franklin framed the petition
so as not to ask for a direct and absolute
grant of the money that was required, but caused
a resolve to be drawn up granting the sum of
two thousand pounds from the public treasury on
condition that the same sum should previously be
raised by private subscription. Many of the
members were willing to vote for this, who would
not have voted for an unconditional donation; and
so the vote was passed without much opposition.
</p>

<p>
After this the private subscriptions went on
very prosperously; for each person who was applied
to considered the conditional promise of the
Assembly as an additional motive to give, since
every man's donation would be doubled by the
public grant, if the required amount was made
up. This consideration had so powerful an influence
that the subscriptions soon exceeded the
requisite sum. Thus the hospital was founded.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p292.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Poor Woman.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Franklin interested himself also in introducing
plans for paving, sweeping and lighting the streets
of the city. Before this time the streets had
been kept in very bad condition. This was the
case, in fact, at that period, in almost all cities&mdash;in
those of Europe as well as those of America.
In connection with this subject Franklin relates
an incident that occurred when he was in London,
which illustrates very strikingly both the
condition of the cities in those days, and the
peculiar traits of Franklin's character. It seems
that he found one morning at the door of his
lodgings a poor woman sweeping the pavement
with a birch broom. She appeared very pale and
feeble, as if just recovering from a fit of sickness.
<q>I asked her,</q> says Franklin, <q>who employed
her to sweep there.</q> <q>Nobody,</q> said she, <q>but
I am poor and in distress, and I sweeps before
gentlefolks' doors and hopes they will give me
something.</q>
</p>

<p>
Instead of driving the poor woman away,
Franklin set her at work to sweep the whole
street clean, saying that when she had done it he
would pay her a shilling. She worked diligently
all the morning upon the task which Franklin
had assigned her, and at noon came for her
shilling. This incident, trifling as it might seem,
led Franklin to a long train of reflections and calculations
in respect to the sweeping of the streets
of cities, and to the formation of plans which were
afterward adopted with much success.
</p>

<p>
In the year 1755, Franklin became connected
with the famous expedition of General Braddock
in the western part of Pennsylvania, which ended
so disastrously. A new war had broken out between
the French and the English, and the
French, who had long held possession of Canada,
and had gradually been extending their posts
down into the valley of the Mississippi, at length
took possession of the point of confluence of the
Monongahela and Alleghany rivers, where Pittsburg
now stands. Here they built a fort, which
they called Fort Du Quesne. From this fort, as
the English allege, the French organized bands
of Indians from the tribes which lived in the
neighborhood, and made predatory incursions into
the English colonies, especially into Pennsylvania.
The English government accordingly
sent General Braddock at the head of a large
force, with instructions to march through the
woods, take the fort, and thus put an end to
these incursions.
</p>

<p>
General Braddock landed with his troops at a
port in Virginia, and thence marched into Maryland
on his way to Pennsylvania. He soon found
himself in very serious difficulty, however, from
being unable to procure wagons for the transportation
of the military stores and other baggage
which it was necessary to take with the army in
going through such a wilderness as lay between
him and fort Du Quesne. He had sent all about
the country to procure wagons, but few could be
obtained.
</p>

<p>
In the mean time the Assembly at Philadelphia
made arrangements for Franklin to go to Maryland
to meet General Braddock on his way, and
give him any aid which it might be in his power
to render. They were the more inclined to do
this from the fact that for some time there had
been a good deal of disagreement and contention
between the colony of Pennsylvania and the
government in England, and they had heard that
General Braddock was much prejudiced against
the Assembly on that account. They accordingly
dispatched Franklin as their agent, to proceed
to the camp and assure General Braddock
of the desire of the Assembly to co-operate with
him by every means in their power.
</p>

<p>
Franklin found when he reached the camp,
that the general was in great trouble and perplexity
for want of wagons, and he immediately
undertook to procure them for him. He accordingly
took a commission from the general for
this purpose, and went at once to Lancaster, in
Pennsylvania, and there issued circulars which
he sent to all the farmers in the country, inviting
<pb n='293'/><anchor id='Pg293'/>
them to bring their wagons to Lancaster, and
offering them advantageous terms for the hire of
them. These measures were perfectly successful.
The wagons came in, in great numbers, and
an abundant supply was speedily obtained. This
success was owing partly to Franklin's sagacity
in knowing exactly where to send for wagons,
and what sort of inducements to offer to the
farmers to make them willing
to bring them out, and
partly to the universal respect
and confidence that
was felt toward him personally,
which led the farmers
to come forward readily
at <emph>his</emph> call and on <emph>his</emph> promise,
when they would
have been suspicious and
distrustful of any offers
which Braddock could have
made them through any of
the English officers under
his command. A train of
one hundred and fifty wagons,
and two hundred and
fifty carrying horses were
very soon on their way to
the camp.
</p>

<p>
Encouraged by the success of these measures,
Franklin conceived of another plan to promote
the comfort and welfare of Braddock's army.
He procured a grant of money from the Assembly
to be applied to purchasing stores for the
subaltern officers, who, as he had learned, were
very scantily supplied with the articles necessary
for their comfort. With this money he purchased
a supply of such commodities as he judged would
be most useful in camp, such as coffee, tea,
sugar, biscuit, butter, cheese, hams, &amp;c., and
dividing these stores into parcels, so as to make
one for each officer in the army, he placed the
parcels upon as many horses, and sent them to
the camp. The supply intended for each officer
made a load for one horse.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p293b.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Supply Horse.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Notwithstanding all these efforts, however, to
promote the success of Braddock's expedition, it
was destined, as is well known, to come to a
very disastrous end. Braddock allowed himself
to fall into an ambuscade. Here he was attacked
by the Indians with terrible fury. The men
stood their ground as long as possible, but finally
were seized with a panic and fled in all directions.
The wagoners&mdash;men who had come from the
Philadelphia farms in charge of the wagons that
had been furnished in answer to Franklin's call&mdash;in
making their escape, took each a horse out of
his team, and galloped away, and thus the wagons
themselves and all the provisions, ammunition,
and military stores of every kind, fell into the
hands of the enemy. Braddock himself was
wounded, nearly half of the troops were killed,
and the whole object of the expedition was completely
frustrated. The wounded general was
conveyed back about forty miles to the rear, and
there, a few days afterward, he died.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p293a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Braddock's Escape.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Of course a feeling of great alarm was awakened
throughout Pennsylvania as the tidings of
this disaster were spread abroad. Every one
was convinced that some efficient measures must
at once he adopted to defend the country from
the incursions of the French and Indians on the
frontier. There was, however, a very serious
difficulty in the way of taking such measures.
</p>

<p>
This difficulty was, an obstinate quarrel which
had existed for a long time between the governor
and the Assembly. The governor was appointed
in England, and he represented the views and
the interests of the English proprietors of the
colony. The Assembly were elected by the people
of the colony, and of course represented their
interests and views. Now the proprietors had
instructed the governor to insist that <emph>their</emph> property
should not be subject to taxation; and to
refuse his assent to all bills for raising money
unless the property of the proprietors should be
exempted. On the other hand the colonists maintained
that the land belonging to the proprietors
was as justly subject to taxation as any other
property; and they refused to pass any bills for
raising money unless the property of the proprietors
was included. Thus nothing could be done.
</p>

<p>
This dispute had already been long protracted
and both parties had become somewhat obstinate
in their determination to maintain the ground
which they had respectively taken. Even now
<pb n='294'/><anchor id='Pg294'/>
when the country was in this imminent danger,
it was some time before either side would yield,
while each charged upon the other the responsibility
of refusing to provide the means for the
defense of the country.
</p>

<p>
At length, however, a sort of compromise was
made. The proprietors offered to contribute a
certain sum toward the public defense, and the
Assembly consented to receive the contribution
in lieu of a tax, and passed a law for raising
money, exempting the proprietors' land from being
taxed. The sum of sixty thousand pounds
was thus raised, and Franklin was appointed one
of the commissioners for disposing of the money.
</p>

<p>
A law was also enacted for organizing and
arming a volunteer militia; and while the companies
were forming, the governor persuaded
Franklin to take command of the force, and proceed
at the head of it to the frontier. Franklin
was reluctant to undertake this military business,
as his whole life had been devoted to entirely different
pursuits. He, however, accepted the appointment,
and undertook the defense of the
frontier.
</p>

<p>
There was a settlement of Moravians about
fifty or sixty miles from Philadelphia, at Bethlehem,
which was then upon the frontier. Bethlehem
was the principal settlement of the Moravians,
but they had several villages besides.
One of these villages, named Gnadenhütten, had
just been destroyed by the Indians, and the whole
settlement was in great alarm. Franklin proceeded
to Bethlehem with his force, and having
made such arrangements and preparations as
seemed necessary there, he obtained some wagons
for his stores, and set off on a march to
Gnadenhütten. His object was to erect a fort
and establish a garrison there.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p294.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
It was in the dead of winter, and before the
column had proceeded many miles a violent storm
of rain came on, but there were no habitations
along the road, and no places of shelter; so the
party were obliged to proceed. They went on
toiling heavily through the mud and snow.
</p>

<p>
They were of course in constant danger of an
attack from the Indians, and were the more apprehensive
of this from the fact that on such a
march they were necessarily in a very defenseless
condition. Besides, the rain fell so continually
and so abundantly that the men could not
keep the locks of their muskets dry. They went
on, however, in this way for many hours, but at
last they came to the house of a solitary German
settler, and here they determined to stop for the
night. The whole troop crowded into the house
and into the barn, where they lay that night
huddled together, and <q>as wet,</q> Franklin says,
<q>as water could make them.</q> The next day,
however, was fair, and they proceeded on their
march in a somewhat more comfortable manner.
</p>

<p>
They arrived at length at Gnadenhütten, where
a most melancholy spectacle awaited them. The
village was in ruins. The country people of the
neighborhood had attempted to give the bodies of
the murdered inhabitants a hurried burial; but they
had only half performed their work, and the first
duty which devolved on Franklin's soldiers was to
complete the interment in a proper manner. The
next thing to be thought of was to provide some
sort of shelter for the soldiers; for they had no
tents, and all the houses had been destroyed.
</p>

<p>
There was a mill near by, around which were
several piles of pine boards which the Indians
had not destroyed. Franklin set his troops at
work to make huts of these boards, and thus in
a short time his whole army was comfortably
sheltered. All this was done on the day and
evening of their arrival, and on the following
morning the whole force was employed in commencing
operations upon the fort.
</p>

<p>
The fort was to be built of palisades, and it
was marked out of such a size that the circumference
was four hundred and fifty-five feet. This
would require four hundred and fifty-five palisades;
for the palisades were to be formed of logs,
of a foot in diameter upon an average, and eighteen
feet long. The palisades
were to be obtained
from the trees in the neighborhood,
and these trees
were so tall that each tree
would make three palisades.
The men had seventy axes
in all, and the most skillful
and able woodmen in the
company were immediately
set at work to fell the trees.
Franklin says that he was
surprised to observe how
fast these axmen would cut
the trees down; and at
length he had the curiosity
to look at his watch when
two men began to cut at a
pine. They brought it
down in six minutes; and
on measuring it, where they had cut it off, Franklin
found the diameter of the tree to be fourteen
inches.
</p>

<p>
While the woodmen were cutting the palisades
a large number of other laborers were employed
in digging a trench all around the circumference
<pb n='295'/><anchor id='Pg295'/>
of the fort to receive them. This trench was
made about three feet deep, and wide enough to
receive the large ends of the palisades. As fast
as the palisades were cut they were brought to
the spot, by means of the wagon wheels which
had been separated from the wagon bodies for
this purpose. The palisades were set up, close
together, in the trench, and the earth was rammed
in around them; thus the inclosure of the fort
was soon completed.
</p>

<p>
A platform was then built all around on the
inside, for the men to stand upon to fire through
the loop holes which were left in the palisades
above. There was one swivel gun, which the
men had brought with them in one of the wagons.
This gun they mounted in one corner of
the fort, and as soon as they had mounted it they
fired it, in order, as Franklin said, to let the Indians
know, if any were within hearing, that they
had such artillery.
</p>

<p>
There <emph>were</emph> Indians within hearing it seems;
several bands were lurking in the neighborhood,
secretly watching the movements of Franklin's
command. This was found to be the case a short
time after the fort was completed, for when
Franklin found his army securely posted he sent
out a party of scouts to explore the surrounding
country to see if any traces of Indians could be
found. These men saw no Indians, but they
found certain places on the neighboring hills
where it was evident that Indians had been lurking
to watch the proceedings of the soldiers in
building the fort. Franklin's men were much
struck with the ingenious contrivance which the
Indians had resorted to, in order to escape being
observed while thus watching. As it was in the
depth of the winter it was absolutely necessary
for them to have a fire, and without some special
precaution a fire would have betrayed them, by
the light which it would emit at night, or the
smoke which would rise from it by day. To avoid
this, the Indians, they found, had dug holes in the
ground, and made their fires in the bottoms of
the holes, using charcoal only for fuel, for this
would emit no smoke. They obtained the charcoal
from the embers, and brands, and burnt ends
of logs, which they found in the woods near by.
The soldiers found by the marks on the grass
around these holes that the Indians had been
accustomed to sit around them upon the edges,
with their feet below, near the fire.
</p>

<p>
The building and arming of such a fort, and
the other military arrangements which Franklin
made on the frontier produced such an impression
upon the Indians that they gradually withdrew,
leaving that part of the country in a tolerably secure
condition. Soon after this Franklin was
summoned by the governor to return to Philadelphia,
as his presence and counsel were required
there. He found on his arrival that he
had acquired great fame by the success of his
military operations. In fact quite a distinguished
honor was paid to him, soon after this time, on
the occasion of his going to Virginia on some
public business. The officers of the regiment
resolved to escort him out of the town, on the
morning when he was to commence his journey.
He knew nothing of this project until just as he
was coming forth, when he found the officers at the
door, all mounted and dressed in their uniforms.
Franklin says that he was a good deal chagrined
at their appearing, as he could not avoid their
accompanying him, though if he had known it
beforehand he should have prevented it.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p295.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Departure.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='296'/><anchor id='Pg296'/>

<p>
While Franklin was thus acquiring some considerable
military renown in America, he was becoming
quite celebrated as a philosopher on the
continent of Europe. It seems that some years
before, the library society of Philadelphia had received
some articles of electrical apparatus from
England, and Franklin had performed certain experiments
with them which led him to believe,
what had not been known before, that lightning
was an electrical phenomenon. He wrote some
account of his experiments, and of the views
which they had led him to entertain, and sent it
to the person from whom the library society had
received the apparatus. These papers attracted
much attention, and were at length laid before the
Royal Society of London, and soon afterward
published in the transactions of the Society. In
this form they were seen by a distinguished
French philosopher, the Count de Buffon, who
caused them to be be translated into the French
language and published at Paris. By this means
the attention of the whole scientific world was
called to Franklin's speculations, and as the correctness
of his views was fully established by subsequent
investigations and
experiments, he acquired
great renown. He was
elected a member of the
various scientific societies,
and the Royal Society of
London sent him a magnificent
gold medal.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p296a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Count de Buffon.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
This medal was brought
to America to be delivered
to Franklin by a new Governor,
Captain Denny, who
was about this time appointed
over the colony of
Pennsylvania. The course
of public business had often
brought Franklin and the
former governor into conflict
with each other; for
the governor, as has already
been said, represented the interests of the English
proprietors of the colony, while Franklin
espoused very warmly the cause of the people.
The governor often sent messages and addresses
to the Assembly censuring them for the course
of proceeding which they had followed in reference
to taxing the proprietors' lands, and the
Assembly often appointed Franklin to draw up
suitable replies. The new governor seems to
have been pleased with having the medal intrusted
to his charge, as he intended in commencing
his administration, to do all in his power
to propitiate Franklin, so as to secure the great
influence which the philosopher had now begun
to wield in the province, in his favor.
</p>

<p>
When Governor Denny arrived at Philadelphia
and entered upon the duties of his office, he determined
on giving a great entertainment to the
people of Philadelphia, and to take that occasion
for presenting Franklin with his medal. This
he accordingly did; and he accompanied the
presentation with an appropriate speech, in which
he complimented Franklin in a very handsome
manner for his scientific attainments, and spoke
in flattering terms of the renown which he was
acquiring in Europe. After the dinner, he took
Franklin aside into a small room, leaving the
general company still at the table, and entered
into conversation with him in respect to the affairs
of the province and the contemplated measures
of his administration. He had been advised,
he said, by his friends in England, to cultivate a
good understanding with Franklin, as a man capable
of giving him the best advice, and of contributing
most effectually to making his administration
easy. He said a great deal about the
friendly feeling toward the colony which was
entertained by the proprietors, and about the advantage
which it would be to all concerned, and
to Franklin in particular, if the opposition which
had been made to the proprietor's views should
be discontinued, and harmony restored between
them and the people of the colony.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p296b.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Franklin and Denny.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
During all this time while the governor was
plying his guest with these flatteries and promises,
he was offering him wine and drinking his
health; for the people at the dinner table,
when they found that the governor did not return,
<pb n='297'/><anchor id='Pg297'/>
sent a decanter of Madeira and some glasses
into the room where he and Franklin were sitting.
All these civilities and blandishments, however,
on the part of the governor seem to have been
thrown away. Franklin replied with politeness,
but yet in such a manner as to evince a full determination
to adhere faithfully to the cause of
the colonists, in case any farther encroachments
on their rights should be attempted.
</p>

<p>
In fact the breach between the people of the
colony and the proprietors in England soon began
to grow wider, under
the administration of the
new governor, than they had
ever been before, until at
length it was decided to
send Franklin to England
to lay a remonstrance and
petition against the proceedings
of the proprietors, before
the king. Franklin
accordingly took passage on
board of a packet which was
to sail from New York.
</p>

<p>
A great many embarrassments
and delays, however,
supervened before he finally
set sail. In the first place,
he was detained by certain
negotiations which were entered
into between Governors
Loudoun of New York, and Denny of Philadelphia
on the one part, and the Philadelphia
Assembly on the other, in a vain attempt to compromise
the difficulty, until the packet in which
he had taken passage had sailed, carrying with
her all the stores which he had laid in for the
voyage. Next, he found himself detained week
after week in New York by the dilatoriness and
perpetual procrastination of Governor Loudoun,
who kept back the packets as they came in, one
after another, in order to get his dispatches prepared.
He was always busy writing letters and
dispatches, but they seemed never to be ready; so
that it was said of him by some wags that he was
like the figure of St. George upon the tavern signs,
<q>who though always on horseback never rides on.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p297a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: St. George Sign.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
After being detained in this way several weeks,
it was announced that the packets were about to
sail, and the passengers were all ordered to go on
board. The packets proceeded to Sandy Hook,
and there anchored to wait for the governor's final
dispatches. Here they were kept waiting day
after day for about six weeks, so that at last the
passengers' stores were consumed, and they had
to obtain a fresh supply; and one of the vessels
became so foul with the incrustation of shells and
barnacles upon her hull, that she required to be
taken into dock and cleaned. At length, however,
the fleet sailed, and Franklin, after various adventures,
arrived safely one foggy morning at Falmouth
in England.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p297b.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: The Ship.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The vessel narrowly escaped shipwreck on the
Scilly Islands as they were approaching the town
of Falmouth. Although the wind was not violent,
the weather was very thick and hazy, and
there was a treacherous current drifting them
toward the rocks as they attempted to pass by
the island and gain the shore. There was a
watchman stationed at the bow, whose duty it
was to keep a vigilant look-out. This watchman
was called to from time to time by an officer on
the deck, <q>Look out well before there,</q> and he
as often answered <q>Ay, ay;</q> but he neglected
his duty, notwithstanding, being probably half
asleep at his station; for suddenly all on deck
were alarmed by an outcry, and looking forward
they saw the light-house which stood upon the
rocks, looming up close before them. The ship was
immediately brought round by a kind of manœuvre
considered very dangerous in such circumstances,
but it was successful in this case, and
thus they escaped the impending danger. The
passengers were all aware of the peril they were
in, and many of them were exceedingly alarmed.
In fact, the shipmaster and the seamen considered
it a very narrow escape. If the ship had gone
upon the rocks, the whole company would probably
have perished.
</p>

<p>
It was Sunday morning and the bells were
ringing for church when the passengers landed.
Franklin with the others went to church immediately,
with hearts full of gratitude to God, as
he says, for the deliverance which they had experienced.
He then went to his inn and wrote
<pb n='298'/><anchor id='Pg298'/>
a letter to his family giving them an account of
his voyage.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p298a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Franklin Writing.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
A few days after
this he went up to
London, and began
to devote himself
to the business
of his agency.
</p>

<p>
He found, however,
that he made
very slow progress
in accomplishing
his object, for the
ministry were so
much engaged
with other affairs,
that for a long time
he could not obtain
a hearing.
He however was not idle. He wrote pamphlets
and articles in the newspapers; and every thing
that he wrote was of so original a character, and
so apposite, and was moreover expressed with so
much terseness and point, that it attracted great
attention and acquired great influence.
</p>

<p>
In fact, Franklin was distinguished all his life
for the genius and originality which he displayed
in expressing any sentiments which he wished
to inculcate upon mankind. One of the most
striking examples of this is the celebrated Parable
against persecution of which he is generally
considered the author; it is as follows:
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p298b.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Abraham and the Old Man.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
And it came to pass
after these things, that
Abraham sat in the door
of his tent, about the
going down of the sun.
</p>

<p>
2. And behold, a
man, bowed with age,
came from the way of
the wilderness, leaning
on a staff.
</p>

<p>
3. And Abraham arose and met
him, and said unto him, <q>Turn in, I
pray thee, and wash thy feet, and tarry
all night, and thou shalt arise early
on the morrow, and go on thy way.</q>
</p>

<p>
4. But the man said, <q>Nay, for I will abide
under this tree.</q>
</p>

<p>
5. And Abraham pressed him greatly; so he
turned, and they went into the tent, and Abraham
baked unleavened bread, and they did eat.
</p>

<p>
6. And when Abraham saw that the man
blessed not God, he said unto him, <q>Wherefore
dost thou not worship the most high God, Creator
of heaven and earth?</q>
</p>

<p>
7. And the man answered and said, <q>I do not
worship the God thou speakest of, neither do I
call upon his name; for I have made to myself a
god, which abideth alway in mine house, and
provideth me with all things.</q>
</p>

<p>
8. And Abraham's zeal was kindled against
the man, and he arose and fell upon him, and
drove him forth with blows into the wilderness.
</p>

<p>
9. And at midnight God called unto Abraham,
saying, <q>Abraham, where is the stranger?</q>
</p>

<p>
10. And Abraham answered and said, <q>Lord,
he would not worship thee, neither would he call
upon thy name; therefore have I driven him out
from before my face into the wilderness.</q>
</p>

<p>
11. And God said, <q>Have I borne with him
these hundred ninety and eight years, and nourished
him, and clothed him, notwithstanding his
rebellion against me; and couldst not thou, that
art thyself a sinner, bear with him one night?</q>
</p>
</quote>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
This parable, the idea of which Franklin probably
obtained from some ancient Persian books,
he wrote out and committed to memory, and he
used to amuse himself sometimes by opening
the Bible, and repeating the parable as if he were
reading it from that book; and he found, he
said, that very few auditors
were sufficiently acquainted
with the contents
of the sacred volume
to suspect the deception.
</p>

<p>
He often expressed
the sentiments which he
wished to inculcate, in
some unusual and striking
form, as in this instance.
His conversation
assumed somewhat
the same character, so
that wherever he was,
his sayings and doings
always attracted great attention.
</p>

<p>
In respect to this parable on persecution, although
it is generally considered as the production
of Franklin, it was never really claimed as
such by him. In fact, Franklin himself did not
publish it. It was published without his knowledge,
by a friend of his in Scotland, the celebrated
Lord Kames, who inserted it in a volume of
his writings, saying it was <q>furnished to him</q>
by Franklin. Lord Kames resided in Scotland,
and Franklin became acquainted with him during
a visit which he made to that country in the summer
of 1759. Lord Kames became very greatly
interested in Franklin's character, and a warm
friendship and constant correspondence was kept
up between the two philosophers for many years,
as long, in fact, as Lord Kames lived; for Franklin
was the survivor.
</p>

<pb n='299'/><anchor id='Pg299'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p299.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Mrs. Stevenson.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Franklin's residence while he was in London
was in Craven-street, near the Strand, at the
house of a Mrs. Stevenson. This house is still
commemorated in the London Guide Books,
among other places of historical interest in the
metropolis, on account of its having been the
home of the distinguished philosopher so long.
Franklin lived on very friendly terms with Mrs.
Stevenson and her family, while he remained in
her house, and he interested himself in the studies
and instruction of
her daughter. At
the same time he
kept up a constant
and familiar correspondence
with his
wife and family at
home. One of his
sons was with him
during his residence
in England
having accompanied
him when he
came over. His
friends were very
desirous that he
should send for his
wife to come to
England too, and
more especially his
daughter Sally,
who was a very attractive
and agreeable
young lady,
just arrived to
years of woman-hood.
One of
Franklin's most intimate
friends, Mr.
Strahan, a member
of Parliament,
wrote to Mrs.
Franklin very urgently
requesting
her to come to England
with her
daughter. Franklin
himself, however,
seems not to
have seconded this
proposition very
strongly. He
knew, in the first
place, that his wife
had an irresistible
repugnance to undertaking a sea voyage, and
then he was continually hoping that the long
and weary negotiations in which he was engaged
would be brought soon to an end, so that he could
return himself to his native land.
</p>

<p>
At length, after an infinite variety of difficulties
and delays, the object for which Franklin had
been sent to England was in the main accomplished.
It was decided that the lands of the
proprietors should be taxed as well as the property
of the colonists. There were several other
measures which he had been desirous of securing,
which he found then impracticable. Still his
object in the main was accomplished, and the
Assembly were well satisfied with what he had
done. He accordingly concluded to return to
America.
</p>

<p>
He left England about the end of August, in
1762, in company with ten sail of merchant ships
under convoy of a man-of-war. They touched at
Madeira on the passage, where they were very
kindly received by the inhabitants, and Franklin
was very much interested in the observations
which he made on the island and its productions.
After remaining on the island for a few days, and
furnishing the ships with provisions and refreshments
of all kinds, the ships sailed again. They
proceeded southward until they reached the trade
winds, and then westward toward the coast of
America. All this time the weather was so favorable,
and the water was so smooth, that there
were very few days when the passengers could
<pb n='300'/><anchor id='Pg300'/>
not visit from ship to ship, dining with each other
on board the different vessels, which made the
time pass very agreeably; <q>much more so,</q> as
Franklin said, <q>than when one goes in a single
ship, as this was like traveling in a moving village
with all one's neighbors about one.</q>
</p>

<p>
He arrived at home on the 1st of November,
after an absence of between five and six years.
He found his wife and daughter well&mdash;the latter,
as he says, grown to quite a woman, and with
many amiable accomplishments, acquired during
his absence. He was received too with great
distinction by the public authorities and by the
people of Philadelphia. The Assembly voted him
twelve thousand pounds for his services, and also
passed a vote of thanks, to be presented to him in
public by the Speaker. His friends came in great
numbers to see him and congratulate him on his
safe return, so that his house for many days was
filled with them. Besides these public and private
honors bestowed upon himself, Franklin experienced
an additional satisfaction also at this time
on account of the distinction to which his son
was attaining. His son had been appointed Governor
of New Jersey just before his father left
England, and he remained behind when his father
sailed, in order to be married to a very agreeable
West India lady to whom he had proposed himself,
with his father's consent and approbation.
The young governor and his bride arrived in
Philadelphia a few months after Franklin himself
came home. Franklin accompanied his son
to New Jersey, where he had the pleasure of
seeing him warmly welcomed by people of all
ranks, and then left him happily established in
his government there.
</p>

<p>
Soon after this Franklin, who still held the office
of postmaster for the colonies, turned his attention
to the condition of the post-office, and
concluded to make a tour of inspection with reference
to this business in all the colonies north
of Philadelphia. He took his daughter with him
on this journey, although it was likely to be a
very long and fatiguing one. He traveled in a
wagon, accompanied by a saddle horse. His
daughter rode on this horse for a considerable
part of the journey. At the beginning of it she
rode on the horse only occasionally; but, as she
became accustomed to the exercise, she found it
more and more agreeable, and on the journey
home she traveled in this manner nearly all the
way from Rhode Island to Philadelphia.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p300.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Travelling by Wagon.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Not long after this time new Indian difficulties
occurred on the frontiers, which called for the
raising of a new military force to suppress them.
A law was accordingly proposed in the Assembly
for providing the necessary funds for this purpose
by a tax. And now it was found that the question
which Franklin had been sent to Europe to
arrange, namely, the question of taxing the proprietary
lands had not, after all, been so definitely
settled as was supposed. The language of the
law was this: <q>The uncultivated lands of the proprietaries
shall not be assessed higher than the
lowest rate at which any uncultivated lands belonging
to the inhabitants shall be assessed;</q>
and on attempting to determine the practical application
of this language, it was found to be
susceptible of two interpretations. The Assembly
understood it to mean that the land of the proprietaries
should not be taxed higher than that
of any of the inhabitants, <emph>of the same quality</emph>.
Whereas the governor insisted that the meaning
must be that none of the proprietaries' land should
be taxed any higher than the lowest and poorest
belonging to any of the inhabitants. The language
of the enactment is, perhaps, susceptible
of either construction. It will certainly bear the
one which the governor put upon it, and as he
insisted, in the most absolute and determined
manner, upon his view of the question, the Assembly
were at length compelled to yield; for
the terrible danger which impended over the colony
from the Indians on the frontier would not
admit of delay.
</p>

<p>
The people of the colony, though thus beaten
in the contest and forced to submit, were by no
means disposed to submit peaceably. On the
contrary a very general feeling of indignation and
resentment took possession
of the community, and at
length it was determined to
send a petition to the King
of Great Britain, praying
him to dispossess the proprietaries
of the power which
they were so obstinately determined
on abusing, and to
assume the government of
the colonies himself, as a
prerogative of the crown.
The coming to this determination
on the part of the
colony was not effected without
a great deal of debate,
and political animosity and
contention, for the governor
of course had a party on
his side, and they exerted
themselves to the utmost to prevent the adoption
of the petition. It was, however, carried against
all opposition. The Speaker of the Assembly
<pb n='301'/><anchor id='Pg301'/>
however, refused to sign the bill when it was
passed, and he resigned his office to avoid the
performance of this duty, an act which would of
course greatly please the proprietary party. The
majority of the Assembly then elected Franklin
Speaker, and he at once signed the bill. This
proceeding made Franklin specially obnoxious to
the proprietary party, and at the next election of
members of the Assembly they made every possible
effort in Franklin's district to prevent his
being chosen. They succeeded. Franklin lost
his election by about twenty-five votes out of four
thousand. But though the proprietary interest
was thus the strongest in Franklin's district, it
was found when the new Assembly came together
that the party that was opposed to them
was in a majority of two-thirds; and in order to
rebuke their opponents for the efforts which they
had made to defeat Franklin in his district, they
immediately passed a vote to send him to England
again, as a special messenger, to present the petition
which they had voted, to the king.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p301a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Church.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The animosity and excitement which attended
this contest was of course extreme, and the character
and the whole political course of Franklin,
were assailed by his enemies with all the violence
and pertinacity that characterize political contests
of this kind at the present day. Franklin, however,
bore it all very good-naturedly. Just before
he sailed, after he had left Philadelphia to repair
to the ship, which was lying some distance down
the river, he wrote a very affectionate letter to
his daughter to bid her farewell and give her his
parting counsels. <q>You know,</q> said he, in this
letter, <q>that I have many enemies, all, indeed,
on the public account (for I can not recollect that
I have in a private capacity given just cause of
offense to any one whatever), yet they are enemies,
and very bitter ones; and you must expect
their enmity will extend in some degree to you,
so that your slightest indiscretions will be magnified
into crimes, in order
the more sensibly to wound
and afflict me. It is, therefore,
the more necessary for
you to be extremely circumspect
in all your behavior,
that no advantage may be
given to their malevolence.</q>
Then followed various counsels
relating to her duty to
her mother, her general deportment,
her studies, and
her obligations to the
church. The church with
which Franklin was connected
was of the Episcopal
denomination, and he took a
great interest in its prosperity;
though he manifested
the same liberality and public
spirit here as in all the other relations that he
sustained. At one time, for example, it was proposed
by certain members of the congregation to
form a sort of colony, and build a new church in
another place. A portion of the people opposed
this plan as tending to weaken the mother church,
but Franklin favored it, thinking that in the end
the measure would have a contrary effect from
the one they apprehended. He compared it to the
swarming of bees, by which, he said, the comfort
and prosperity of the old hive was increased, and
a new and flourishing colony established to keep
the parent stock in countenance. Very few persons,
at that period, would have seen either the
expediency or the duty of pursuing such a course
in respect to the colonization of a portion of a
church: though now such views are very extensively
entertained by all liberal minded men, and
many such colonies are now formed from thriving
churches, with the concurrence of all concerned.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p301b.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Assembled upon the wharf.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
But to return to the voyage. Franklin was to
embark on board his ship at Chester, a port situated
down the river from Philadelphia, on the
confines of the State of Delaware. A cavalcade
of three hundred people from Philadelphia accompanied
him to Chester, and a great company
assembled upon the wharf, when the vessel was
about to sail, to take leave of their distinguished
countryman and wish him a prosperous voyage.
The crowd thus assembled saluted Franklin with
acclamations and cheers, as the boat which was
to convey him to the vessel slowly moved away
from the shore. The day of his sailing was the
7th of November, 1764, about two years after
his return from his former visit.
</p>

<pb n='302'/><anchor id='Pg302'/>

<p>
The voyage across the Atlantic was a prosperous
one, notwithstanding that it was so late
in the season. Franklin wrote a letter home to
give his wife and daughter an account of his
voyage, before he left the vessel. On landing he
proceeded to London, and went directly to his old
landlady's, at Mrs. Stevenson's, in Craven-street,
Strand. When the news of his safe arrival
reached Philadelphia, the people of the city celebrated
the event by ringing the bells, and other
modes of public rejoicing. The hostility which
had been manifested toward him had operated to
make him a greater favorite than ever.
</p>

<p>
Franklin now began to turn his attention toward
the business of his agency. He had not been
long in England, however, before difficulties
grew up between the colonies and the mother
country, which proved to be of a far more serious
character than those which had been discussed
at Philadelphia. Parliament claimed the right to
tax the colonies. The colonies maintained that
their own legislatures alone had this right, and a
long and obstinate dispute ensued. The English
government devised all sorts of expedients to assess
the taxes in such a way that the Americans
should be compelled to pay them; and the Americans
on their part met these attempts by equally
ingenious and far more effectual contrivances for
evading the payment. For a time the Americans
refused to use any British commodities, in order
that the people of England might see that by the
persisting of the government in their determination
to tax the colonies, they would lose a very
valuable trade. Franklin joined in this effort,
insomuch that for a long time he would not make
purchases in England of any articles to send home
to his family. At length the difficulty was in
some measure compromised. One of the most
obnoxious of the acts of Parliament for taxing
America was repealed, and then for the first time
Franklin purchased and sent home to his wife
and daughter quite a trunk full of dresses&mdash;silks,
satins, and brocade&mdash;with gloves, and bottles of
lavender water, and other such niceties to fill
the corners. He told her, in the letter which he
sent with this trunk, that, as the Stamp Act was
repealed, he was now willing that she should
have a new gown.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p302a.png' rend='width: 70%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: The Gown.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
In fact the great philosopher's attention was
attracted at this time in some degree to the effect
of dress upon his own personal appearance, for
on making a visit to Paris, which he did toward
the close of 1767, he says that the French tailor
and perruquier so transformed him as to make
him appear twenty years younger than he really
was.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p302b.png' rend='width: 40%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Twenty Years Younger.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Franklin received a great deal of attention
while he was in Paris, and he seems to have enjoyed
his visit there very highly. The most distinguished
men in the walks of literature and
science sought his society, for they all knew well
his reputation as a philosopher; and many of
them had read his writings and had repeated the
experiments which he had made, and which had
awakened so deep an interest throughout the
whole learned world. Franklin received too,
many marks of distinction and honor from the
public men of France&mdash;especially
from those who
were connected with the
government. It was supposed
that they had been
watching the progress of
the disputes between England
and her colonies, and
secretly hoping that these
disputes might end in an
open rupture; for such a
rupture they thought would
end in weakening the power
of their ancient rival. Sympathizing
thus with the
party in this contest which
Franklin represented, they
naturally felt a special interest
in him. Franklin was
presented at court, and received
into the most distinguished society in the
metropolis.
</p>

<p>
After a time he returned again to England, but
he found when he arrived there that the state of
things between the English government and the
<pb n='303'/><anchor id='Pg303'/>
American colonies was growing worse instead of
better. Parliament insisted on its right <q>to bind
the colonies,</q> as their resolve expressed it, <q>in
all cases whatsoever.</q> The Americans, on the
other hand, were more and more determined to
resist such a claim. Parliament adopted measures
more and more stringent every day, to compel
the colonies to submit. They passed coercive
laws; they devised ingenious modes of levying
taxes; they sent out troops, and in every possible
way strengthened the military position of the
government in America. The colonists, on the
other hand, began to evince the most determined
spirit of hostility to the measures of the mother
country. They held great public assemblages;
they passed violent resolves; they began to form
extensive and formidable combinations for resisting
or evading the laws. Thus every thing portended
an approaching conflict.
</p>

<p>
Franklin exerted all his power and influence
for a long time in attempting to heal the breach.
He wrote pamphlets and articles in the newspapers
in England defending, though in a tone of
great candor and moderation,
the rights of America,
and urging the ministry and
people of England not to
persist in their attempts at
coercion. At the same
time he wrote letters to
America, endeavoring to
diminish the violence of the
agitation there, in hopes
that by keeping back the
tide of excitement and passion
which was so rapidly
rising, some mode of adjustment
might be found to
terminate the difficulty. All
these efforts were, however,
in vain. The quarrel grew
wider and more hopeless
every day.
</p>

<p>
About this time the administration of the colonial
affairs for the English government was committed
to a new officer, Lord Hillsborough, who
was now made Secretary of State for America;
and immediately new negotiations were entered
into, and new schemes formed, for settling the
dispute. Two or three years thus passed away,
but nothing was done. At length Lord Hillsborough
seems to have conceived the idea of winning
over Franklin's influence to the side of the
English government by compliments and flattering
attentions. He met him one morning in
Dublin, at the house of the Lord-lieutenant of
Ireland, where he paid him special civilities, and
invited him in the most cordial manner to visit him
at his country mansion at Hillsborough, in the
north of England. Franklin was then contemplating
a journey northward, and in the course
of this journey he stopped at Hillsborough. He
and his party were received with the greatest
attention by his lordship, and detained four days,
during which time Franklin was loaded with
civilities.
</p>

<p>
If these attentions were really designed to
make Franklin more manageable, as the representative
of the colonies in the contest that was
going on, they wholly failed of their object; for
in the negotiations which followed, Franklin continued
as firm and intractable as ever. In fact, not
long after this, he came directly into conflict with
Lord Hillsborough before the Board of Trade,
when a certain measure relating to the colony&mdash;one
which Lord Hillsborough strongly opposed,
and Franklin as strenuously advocated&mdash;was in
debate. At last after a long contest Franklin
gained the day; and this result so changed his
lordship's sentiments toward Franklin that for
some time he treated him with marked rudeness.
At one time Franklin called to pay his respects
to Lord Hillsborough on a day when his lordship
was holding a levee, and when there were a number
of carriages at the door. Franklin's coachman
drove up, alighted, and was opening the
carriage for Franklin to dismount, when the porter
came out, and in the most supercilious and
surly manner rebuked the coachman for opening
the door of the carriage before he had inquired
whether his lordship was at home; and then
turning to Franklin he said, <q>My lord is <emph>not</emph> at
home.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p303.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Franklin and Hillsborough.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Lord Hillsborough, however, recovered from
his resentment after this, in the course of a year;
and at length on one occasion his lordship called
upon Franklin in his room, and accosted him in a
very cordial and friendly manner, as if no difficulty
between them had ever occurred.
</p>

<p>
In the mean time the determination in America
to resist the principle of the supremacy of
Parliament over the colonies, became more and
more extended. A disposition was manifested
by the several colonies to combine their efforts
for this end, and one after another of them sent
out commissions to Franklin to act as their agent,
as well as agent for Pennsylvania. Things went
on in this way until a certain tragical affair occurred
in Boston, known generally in American
accounts of these events as the Boston massacre,
which greatly increased the popular excitement
among the people of the colonies.
</p>

<pb n='304'/><anchor id='Pg304'/>

<p>
This massacre, as it was called, was the shooting
of some persons in a crowd in State-street
in Boston, by the British soldiers. It originated
thus: A company of boys one day undertook to
burn effigies of certain merchants who persisted
in importing British goods and secretly selling
them, thus taking sides as it were against their
countrymen in the contest that was going on.
While doing this a man whom they considered a
spy and informer came by; and the boys, in some
way or other, became involved in a quarrel with
him. The man retreated to his house; the boys
followed him and threw snow-balls and pieces of
ice at the house when he had gone in. The man
brought a gun to the window and shot one of the
boys dead on the spot.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p304a.png' rend='width: 70%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Boston Massacre.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
This of course produced a very intense excitement
throughout the city. The soldiers naturally
took part with those supposed to favor British
interests; this exasperated the populace against
them, and finally, after various collisions, a case
occurred in which the British officer deemed it
his duty to order the troops to fire upon a crowd
of people that were assembled to taunt and threaten
them, and pelt them with ice and snow.
They had been led to assemble thus, through
some quarrel that had sprung up between a sentinel
and one of the young men of the town.
In the firing three men were killed outright,
and two more were mortally wounded. The
killing of these men was called a massacre,
and the tidings of it produced a universal and
uncontrollable excitement throughout the provinces.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p304b.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Lord Chatham.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
In proportion, however, as the spirit of resistance
to British rule manifested itself in America,
the determination became more and more firm
and decided on the part of the British government
not to yield. It is a point of honor with
all governments, and especially with monarchical
governments, not to give way in the slightest
degree to what they call rebellion. There were,
however, a few among the British statesmen who
foresaw the impossibility of subduing the spirit
which was manifesting itself in America, by any
force which could be brought to bear upon so
distant and determined a population. Lord
Chatham was one of
these; and he actually
brought forward in Parliament,
in 1775, just
before the revolution
broke out, a bill for
withdrawing the troops
from Boston as the first
step toward a conciliatory
course of measures.
Franklin was present in
Parliament, by Chatham's
particular request,
at the time when this
motion was brought forward.
In the speech
which Lord Chatham
made on this occasion,
he alluded to Franklin,
and spoke of him in the
highest terms. The motion
was advocated too,
by Lord Camden, another of the British peers,
<pb n='305'/><anchor id='Pg305'/>
who made an able speech in favor of it. On the
other hand it was most violently opposed by
other speakers, and Franklin himself was assailed
by one of them in very severe terms. When
the vote came to be taken, it was lost by a
large majority; and thus all hope of any thing
like a reconciliation disappeared.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p304c.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Lord Camden.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
A great variety of ingenious devices were resorted
to from time to time to propitiate Franklin,
and to secure his influence in America, in
favor of some mode of settling the difficulty, which
would involve submission on the part of the colonies.
He was for example quite celebrated for
his skill in playing chess, and at one time he
was informed that a certain lady of high rank desired
to play chess with him, thinking that she
could beat him. He of course acceded to this
request and played several games with her. The
lady was a sister of Lord Howe, a nobleman who
subsequently took a very active and important
part in the events of the revolution. It turned
out in the end that this plan of playing chess was
only a manœuvre to open the way for Franklin's
visiting at Mrs. Howe's house, in order that Lord
Howe himself might there have the opportunity
of conferring with him on American affairs without
attracting attention. Various conferences
were accordingly held between Franklin and
Lord Howe, at this lady's house, and many other
similar negotiations were carried on with various
other prominent men about this time, but they
led to nothing satisfactory. In fact, the object
of them all was to bring over Franklin to the
British side of the question, and to induce him
to exert his almost unlimited influence with the
colonies to bring them over. But nothing of this
sort could be done.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p305.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Mrs. Howe.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Ten years had now passed away since Franklin
went to England, and it began to appear very
obvious that the difficulties in which his mission
had originated, could not be settled, but would
soon lead to an open rupture between the colonies
and the mother country. Franklin of course concluded
that for him to remain any longer in England
would be of no avail. He had hitherto exerted
all his power to promote a settlement of the
dispute, and had endeavored to calm the excitement
of the people at home, and restrain them
from the adoption of any rash or hasty measures.
He now, however, gave up all hope of a peaceable
settlement of the question, and returned to
America prepared to do what lay in his power to
aid his countrymen in the approaching struggle.
</p>

<p>
It was in May, 1775, that Franklin arrived in
Philadelphia, just about the time that open hostilities
were commenced between the colonies and
the mother country. Though he was now quite
advanced in age, being about seventy years old,
he found himself called to the discharge of the
most responsible and arduous duties. A Continental
Congress had been summoned&mdash;to consist
of delegates from all
the colonies. Franklin
was elected, on the next
day after his arrival, as a
member of this body, and
he entered at once upon
the discharge of the duties
which his position brought
upon him, and prosecuted
them in the most efficient
manner. In all the measures
which were adopted
by Congress for organizing
and arming the country,
he took a very prominent
and conspicuous part. In
fact so high was the estimation
in which he was
held, on account of his
wisdom and experience,
and the far-reaching sagacity
which characterized all his doings, that
men were not willing to allow any important
business to be transacted without his concurrence;
and at length, notwithstanding his advanced
age, for he was now, as has been said,
about seventy years old, they proposed to send
him as a commissioner into Canada.
</p>

<p>
The province of Canada had not hitherto
evinced a disposition to take part with the other
colonies in the contest which had been coming
on, and now Congress, thinking it desirable to
secure the co-operation of that colony if possible,
decided on sending a commission there to confer
with the people, and endeavor to induce them
to join the general confederation. Franklin was
appointed at the head of this commission. He
readily consented to accept the appointment,
though for a man of his years the journey, long
as it was, and leading through such a wilderness
as then intervened, was a very formidable undertaking.
So few were the facilities for traveling
in those days that it required five or six weeks
to make the journey. The commissioners left
Philadelphia on the 20th of March, and did not
reach Montreal until near the end of April. In
fact after commencing the journey, and finding
how fatiguing and how protracted it was likely
to be, Franklin felt some doubt whether he should
ever live to return; and when he reached Saratoga
<pb n='306'/><anchor id='Pg306'/>
he wrote to a friend, saying that he began
to apprehend that he had undertaken a fatigue
which at his time of life might prove too much
for him; and so he had taken paper, he said, to
write to a few friends by way of farewell.
</p>

<p>
He did, however, safely return, after a time,
though unfortunately the mission proved unsuccessful.
The Canadians were not disposed to
join the confederation.
</p>

<p>
At length early in the spring of 1776 the leading
statesmen of America came to the conclusion
that the end of the contest in which they were
engaged must be the absolute and final separation
of the colonies from the mother country, and
the establishment of an independent government
for America. When this was resolved upon, a
committee of five members of Congress, namely
Jefferson, Adams, Franklin, Sherman, and Livingston,
were appointed a committee to prepare
a declaration of independence. The original
resolution, on the basis of which the appointment
of this committee was made, was as follows:
</p>

<p>
<q>Resolved, That these united colonies are and
of right ought to be free and independent states,
and that all political connection between them and
Great Britain is, and of right ought to be totally
dissolved.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p306.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: The Committee.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
This resolution was first proposed and debated
on the 8th of June. Some of the provinces were
however found to be not quite prepared for such
a measure, and so the debate was adjourned.
The vote was finally taken on the 1st of July,
and carried by a majority of nine out of thirteen
colonies. Pennsylvania and South Carolina were
against it; Delaware was divided; and New York
did not vote, on account of some informality in
the instructions of her delegates.
</p>

<p>
In the mean time
the committee had
proceeded to the
work of drawing up
the declaration of
independence. Jefferson
was appointed
to write the document,
and he, when
he had prepared his
draft, read it in committee
meeting for
the consideration of
the other members.
The committee approved
the draft substantially
as Jefferson
had written it,
and it was accordingly
reported to
Congress and was
adopted by the vote
of all the colonies.
</p>

<p>
For by the time
that the final and
decisive vote was to
be taken, the delegates
from all the
colonies had received
fresh instructions
from their constituents,
or fresh intelligence
in respect to
the state of public
sentiment in the
communities which
they represented, so
that at last the concurrence
of the colonies
was unanimous
in the act of separation;
and all the
members present on
the 4th of July, the
day on which the
declaration was passed, excepting one, signed the
paper; thus making themselves individually and
personally responsible for it, under the awful
pains and penalties of treason.
</p>

<pb n='307'/><anchor id='Pg307'/>

<p>
In connection with these discussions in relations
to the declaration of independence, a curious
instance is preserved of the tone of good
humor and pleasantry which always marked the
intercourse which Franklin held with others,
even in cases where interests of the most momentous
importance were concerned. When
Jefferson had read his draft in the presence of
the committee, the several members had various
suggestions to make, and amendments to propose,
as is usual in such cases; while the author,
as is also equally usual, was very sensitive to
these criticisms, and was unwilling to consent
to any changing of his work. At length Jefferson
appearing to be quite annoyed by the changes
proposed, Franklin consoled him by saying that
his case was not quite so bad, after all, as that of
John Thompson, the hatter. <q>He wrote a sign,</q>
said Franklin, <q>to be put up over his door, which
read thus, <q><emph>John Thompson makes and sells hats
for ready money</emph>.</q> On showing his work to his
friends they one and all began to amend it. The
first proposed to strike out <q>for ready money,</q>
since it was obvious, he said, that if a hatter sold
hats at all he would be glad to sell them for ready
money. Another thought the words <q>makes and
sells hats,</q> superfluous&mdash;that idea being conveyed
in the word <q>hatter;</q> and finally a third proposed
to expunge the <q>hatter,</q> and put the figure of a
hat after the name, instead, which he said would
be equally well understood, and be more striking.
Thus the composition was reduced from <q>John
Thompson, hatter, makes and sells hats for ready
money,</q> to simply <q>John Thompson,</q> with the
figure of a hat subjoined.</q> The whole story was
perhaps fabricated by Franklin on the spot, for
the occasion. It answered its purpose, however,
perfectly. Jefferson laughed, and his good-humor
was restored.
</p>

<p>
In the mean time during the summer of 1776
the hostile operations which had been commenced
between the new government and the parent
state were prosecuted on both sides with great
vigor. Great Britain however did not yet give
up all hope of persuading the revolted provinces
to return. The English government sent out
Lord Howe with instructions to communicate
with the leading men in America and endeavor
to effect some accommodation of the difficulty.
When Lord Howe arrived in this country he attempted
to open communications with the Americans
through Franklin, but insuperable difficulties
were encountered at the outset. Lord Howe
could only treat with the American authorities as
private persons in a state of rebellion, and the
offers he made were offers of <emph>pardon</emph>. The
American government indignantly rejected all
such propositions. In a letter which he wrote in
reply to Lord Howe Franklin says, <q>Directing
pardons to be offered to the colonies, who are the
very parties injured, expresses indeed that opinion
of our ignorance, baseness, and insensibility,
which your uninformed and proud nation has
long been pleased to entertain of us: but it can
have no other effect than that of increasing our
resentment.</q> Of course all hope of an accommodation
was soon abandoned, and both parties began
to give their whole attention to the means
for a vigorous prosecution of the war.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p307.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The American government soon turned their
thoughts to the subject of forming some foreign
alliance to help them in the impending struggle;
and they presently proposed to send Franklin to
France to attempt to open a negotiation for this
purpose with the government of that country.
Franklin was now very far advanced in life and his
age and infirmities would naturally have prompted
him to desire repose&mdash;but he did not decline
the duty to which he was thus called; and all
aged men should learn from his example that they
are not to consider the work of life as ended, so
long as any available health and strength remain.
</p>

<p>
Franklin arrived in Paris in the middle of
winter in 1776. He traveled on this expedition
wholly as a private person, his appointment as
commissioner to the court of France having been
kept a profound secret, for obvious reasons.
He however, immediately entered into private negotiations
with the French ministry, and though
he found the French government disposed to afford
the Americans such indirect aid as could be
secretly rendered, they were not yet willing to
form any alliance with them, or to take any open
ground in their favor. While this state of things
continued, Franklin, of course, and his brother
commissioners could not be admitted to the
French court; but though they were all the
time in secret communication with the government,
they assumed the position at Paris of private
gentlemen residing at the great capital for
their pleasure.
</p>

<p>
Notwithstanding his being thus apparently in
private life, Franklin was a very conspicuous object
of public attention at Paris. His name and
fame had been so long before the world, and his
character and manners were invested with so
singular a charm, that he was universally known
and admired; all ranks and classes of people
were full of enthusiasm for the venerable American
philosopher. Pictures, busts, and medallions
of the illustrious Franklin were met on every
hand. He was received into the very highest
<pb n='308'/><anchor id='Pg308'/>
society, being welcomed by all circles with the
greatest cordiality and interest.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p308.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: In Paris.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
At length, after the lapse of about a year, the
progress of the Americans in making good their
defense against the armies of the mother country
was so decided, that it began to appear very
probable that the independence of the country
would be maintained, and the French government
deemed that it would be safe for them to enter
into treaties of commerce and friendship with
the new state. This was accordingly done in
February, 1778, though it necessarily involved
the consequence of a war with England.
</p>

<p>
When these treaties were at length signed,
Franklin and the two other commissioners were
formally presented at court, where they were received
by the French monarch as the acknowledged
representatives of an independent and sovereign
power, now for the first time taking her
place among the nations of the earth. This was
an event in the life of Franklin of the highest
interest and importance, since the open negotiations
of the American government by France
made the success of the country, in its effort to
achieve its independence, almost certain, and thus
it was the seal and consummation of all that he
had been so laboriously toiling to accomplish for
fifty years. For we may safely say that the
great end and aim of Franklin's life, the one object
which he kept constantly in view, and to
which all his efforts tended from the beginning
to the end of his public career, was the security
of popular rights and popular liberty against the
encroachments of aristocratic prerogative and
power; and the establishment of the independence
of these United States, which he saw thus
happily settled at last, sealed and secured this
object for half the world.
</p>

<p>
As soon as the event of the acknowledgment
of the independence
of the United States
of America, by the
French government
transpired, the
whole subject of the
conflict between the
late colonies and the
mother country assumed
a new aspect
before mankind.
The British government
became now
more desirous than
ever to contrive
some means of settling
the dispute
without entirely losing
so important a
portion of their ancient
dominion. A
great many applications
were made to
Franklin, by the
secret agents of
the British government,
with a view
of drawing off the
Americans from
their alliance with
the French, and
making a separate
peace with them.
Franklin, however,
would listen to no
such proposals, but
on the contrary,
made them all
known to the
French government.
</p>

<p>
Another consequence
of the recognition of American
independence was that a large number of
young French gentlemen desired to proceed to
America and join the army there. Many of them
applied to Franklin for commissions&mdash;more in
fact than could possibly be received. Among
<pb n='309'/><anchor id='Pg309'/>
those who were successful was the Marquis de
La Fayette, then a young man, who came to
this country with letters of recommendation from
Franklin, and who afterward distinguished himself
so highly in the war.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p309a.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: La Fayette.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
After this, Franklin remained in France for
several years, at first as commissioner, and afterward
as minister plenipotentiary of the government
at the French court, during all which time
the most arduous and the most responsible public
duties devolved upon him. He concluded
most important negotiations with other foreign
powers. He received of the French government
and transmitted to America vast sums of money
to be used in the prosecution of the war. He
conferred with various other commissioners and
embassadors who were sent out from time to
time from the government at home. In a word,
there devolved upon him day by day, an uninterrupted
succession of duties of the most arduous
and responsible character.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p309b.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Printing Office.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
It is a curious illustration of the manner in
which the tastes and habits of early life come
back in old age, that Franklin was accustomed
at this time, for recreation, to amuse himself
with a little printing office, which he caused to
be arranged at his lodgings&mdash;on a small scale it
is true&mdash;but sufficiently complete to enable him
to live his youth over again, as it were, in bringing
back old associations and thoughts to his
mind by giving himself up to his ancient occupations.
The things that he printed in this little
office were all trifles, as he called them, and were
only intended for the amusement of his friends;
but the work of producing them gave him great
pleasure.
</p>

<p>
The time at length arrived when England began
to conclude that it would be best for her to
give up the attempt to reduce her revolted colonies
to subjection again; and negotiations for
peace were commenced at Paris, at first indirectly
and informally, and afterward in a more open
and decided manner. In these negotiations
Franklin of course took a very prominent part.
In fact the conclusion and signing of the great
treaty of peace between Great Britain and the
United States, by which the independence of
this nation was finally and fully acknowledged,
was the last crowning act of Franklin's official
career. The treaty was signed in 1783, and
thus the work of the great statesman's life
was ended. His public life, in fact, began and
ended with the beginning and the end of that
great protracted struggle by which the American
nation was ushered into being. His history is
then simply the history of the establishment of
American independence; and when this work
was achieved his duty was done.
</p>

<p>
Soon after the peace was made, Franklin prepared
to take leave of France, in order to return
to his native land. He had contemplated a tour
over the continent before going back to America,
but the increasing infirmities of age prevented
the realization of this plan. When the time arrived
for leaving Paris, almost all the rank, fashion,
and wealth of the city gathered around him
to bid him farewell. He was borne in the queen's
palanquin to Havre, and accompanied on the
journey by numerous friends. From Havre he
crossed the channel to Southampton, and there
took passage in the London packet for Philadelphia.
</p>

<p>
The voyage occupied a period of forty-eight
days, at the end of which time the ship anchored
just below Philadelphia. The health-officer
of the port went on board, and finding no sickness
gave the passengers leave to land. The
passengers accordingly left the ship in a boat,
and landed at the Market-street wharf, where
crowds of people were assembled, who received
Franklin with loud acclamations, and accompanied
him through the streets, with cheers and
rejoicings, to his door.
</p>

<p>
In a word, the great philosopher and statesman,
on his return to his native land, received
the welcome he deserved, and spent the short
period that still remained to him on earth, surrounded
by his countrymen and friends, the object
of universal respect and veneration. But
great as was the veneration which was felt for
his name and memory then, it is greater now,
and it will be greater and greater still, at the
end of every succeeding century, as long as any
written records of our country's early history remain.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='310'/><anchor id='Pg310'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Napoleon Bonaparte.<note place='foot'>Entered, according to Act of Congress, in
the year 1852, by Harper and Brothers, in the Clerk's Office of the
District Court of the Southern District of New York.</note>
The Syrian Expedition.
By John S. C. Abbott.</head>

<p>
Though, after the Battle of the Pyramids,
Napoleon was the undisputed master of
Egypt, still much was to be accomplished in pursuing
the desperate remnants of the Mamelukes,
and in preparing to resist the overwhelming forces
which it was to be expected that England and
Turkey would send against him. Mourad Bey
had retreated with a few thousand of his horsemen
into Upper Egypt. Napoleon dispatched
General Desaix, with two thousand men, to pursue
him. After several terribly bloody conflicts,
Desaix took possession of all of Upper Egypt as
far as the cataracts. Imbibing the humane and
politic sentiments of Napoleon, he became widely
renowned and beloved for his justice and his
clemency. A large party of scientific men accompanied
the military division, examining every
object of interest, and taking accurate drawings
of those sphinxes, obelisks, temples, and sepulchral
monuments, which, in solitary grandeur,
have withstood the ravages of four thousand
years. To the present hour, the Egyptians remember
with affection, the mild and merciful,
yet efficient government of Desaix. They were
never weary with contrasting it with the despotism
of the Turks.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p310.png' rend='width: 70%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: The Escape from the Red Sea.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
In the mean time Napoleon, in person, made
an expedition to Suez, to inspect the proposed
route of a canal to connect the waters of the
Mediterranean with the Red Sea. With indefatigable
activity of mind he gave orders for the
construction of new works to fortify the harbor of
Suez, and commenced the formation of an infant
marine. One day, with quite a retinue, he made
an excursion to that identical point of the Red
Sea which, as tradition reports, the children of
Israel crossed three thousand years ago. The
tide was out, and he passed over to the Asiatic
shore upon extended flats. Various objects of
interest engrossed his attention until late in the
afternoon, when he commenced his return. The
twilight faded away, and darkness came rapidly
on. The party lost their path, and, as they were
wandering, bewildered among the sands, the
rapidly returning tide surrounded them. The
darkness of the night increased, and the horses
floundered deeper and deeper in the rising waves
The water reached the girths of the saddles, and
dashed upon the feet of the riders, and destruction
seemed inevitable. From this perilous position
Napoleon extricated himself, by that presence
of mind, and promptness of decision, which
seemed never to fail him. It was an awful hour
and an awful scene. And yet, amidst the darkness
and the rising waves of apparently a shoreless
ocean, the spirit of Napoleon was as unperturbed
as if he were reposing in slippered ease
upon his sofa. He collected his escort around
him, in concentric circles, each horseman facing
outward, and ranged in several rows. He then
ordered them to advance, each in a straight line.
When the horse of the leader of one of these
columns lost his foothold, and began to swim,
the column drew back, and followed in the
direction of another column, which had not yet
lost the firm ground. The radii, thus thrown
out in every direction, were thus successively
withdrawn, till all were following in the direction
of one column, which had a stable footing. Thus
escape was effected. The horses did not reach
the shore until midnight, when they were wading
breast deep in the swelling waves. The tide
<pb n='311'/><anchor id='Pg311'/>
rises on that part of the coast to the height of
twenty-two feet. <q>Had I perished in that manner,
like Pharaoh,</q> said Napoleon, <q>it would
have furnished all the preachers of Christendom
with a magnificent text against me.</q>
</p>

<p>
England, animated in the highest degree by
the great victory of Aboukir, now redoubled her
exertions to concentrate all the armies of Europe
upon Republican France. Napoleon had been
very solicitous to avoid a rupture with the Grand
Seignor at Constantinople. The Mamelukes who
had revolted against his authority had soothed
the pride of the Ottoman Porte, and purchased
peace by paying tribute. Napoleon proposed to
continue the tribute, that the revenues of the
Turkish Empire might not be diminished by the
transfer of the sovereignty of Egypt from the
oppressive Mamelukes to better hands. The
Sultan was not sorry to see the Mamelukes punished,
but he looked with much jealousy upon
the movements of a victorious European army
so near his throne. The destruction of the
French fleet deprived Napoleon of his ascendency
in the Levant, and gave the preponderance
to England. The agents of the British government
succeeded in rousing Turkey to arms, to
recover a province which the Mamelukes had
wrested from her, before Napoleon took it from
the Mamelukes. Russia also, with her barbaric
legions, was roused by the eloquence of England,
to rush upon the French Republic in this
day of disaster. Her troops crowded down from
the north to ally themselves with the turbaned
Turk, for the extermination of the French in
Egypt. Old enmities were forgotten, as Christians
and Mussulmans grasped hands in friendship,
forgetting all other animosities in their
common hatred and dread of Republicanism.
The Russian fleet crowded down from the Black
Sea, through the Bosphorus, to the Golden Horn,
where, amidst the thunders of artillery, and the
acclamations of the hundreds of thousands who
throng the streets of Constantinople, Pera, and
Scutari, it was received into the embrace of the
Turkish squadron. It was indeed a gorgeous
spectacle as, beneath the unclouded splendor
of a September sun, this majestic armament
swept through the beautiful scenery of the Hellespont.
The shores of Europe and Asia, separated
by this classic strait, were lined with admiring
spectators, as the crescent and the cross,
in friendly blending, fluttered together in the
breeze. The combined squadron emerged into
the Mediterranean, to co-operate with the victorious
fleet of England, which was now the
undisputed mistress of the sea. Religious animosities
the most inveterate, and national antipathies
the most violent were reconciled by the
pressure of a still stronger hostility to those
principles of popular liberty which threatened to
overthrow the despotism both of the Sultan and
the Czar. The Grand Seignor had assembled an
army of twenty thousand men at Rhodes. They
were to be conveyed by the combined fleet to
the shores of Egypt, and there effect a landing
under cover of its guns. Another vast army
was assembled in Syria, to march down upon
the French by way of the desert, and attack
them simultaneously with the forces sent by the
fleet. England, and the emissaries of the Bourbons,
with vast sums of money accumulated from
the European monarchies, were actively co-operating
upon the Syrian coast, by landing munitions
of war, and by supplying able military
engineers. The British Government was also
accumulating a vast army in India, to be conveyed
by transports up the Red Sea, and to fall
upon the French in their rear. England also
succeeded in forming a new coalition with Austria,
Sardinia, Naples, and other minor European
states to drive the French out of Italy, and with
countless numbers to invade the territory of
France. Thus it would be in vain for the Directory
to attempt even to send succors to their
absent general. And it was not doubted that
Napoleon, thus assailed in diverse quarters by
overpowering numbers, would fall an easy prey
to his foes. Thus suddenly and portentously
peril frowned upon France from every quarter.
</p>

<p>
Mourad Bey, animated by this prospect of the
overthrow of his victorious foes, formed a widespread
conspiracy, embracing all the friends of
the Mamelukes and of the Turks. Every Frenchman
was doomed to death, as in one hour, all
over the land, the conspirators, with scimitar and
poniard, should fall upon their unsuspecting foes.
In this dark day of accumulating disaster the
genius of Napoleon blazed forth with new and
terrible brilliance.
</p>

<p>
But few troops were at the time in Cairo, for
no apprehension of danger was cherished, and
the French were scattered over Egypt, engaged
in all plans of utility. At five o'clock on the
morning of the 21st of October, Napoleon was
awoke from sleep by the announcement that the
city was in revolt, that mounted Bedouin Arabs
were crowding in at the gates, that several officers
and many soldiers were already assassinated.
He ordered an aid immediately to take a number
of the Guard, and quell the insurrection. But
a few moments passed ere one of them returned
covered with blood, and informed him that all
the rest were slain. It was an hour of fearful
peril. Calmly, fearlessly, mercilessly did Napoleon
encounter it. Immediately mounting his
horse, accompanied by a body of his faithful
Guards, he proceeded to every threatened point.
Instantly the presence of Napoleon was felt. A
perfect storm of grape-shot, cannon-balls, and
bomb-shells swept the streets with unintermitted
and terrible destruction. Blood flowed in torrents.
The insurgents, in dismay, fled to the
most populous quarter of the city. Napoleon
followed them with their doom, as calm as destiny.
From the windows and the roofs the insurgents
fought with desperation. The buildings
were immediately enveloped in flames. They
fled into the streets only to be hewn down with
sabres and mown down with grape-shot. Multitudes,
bleeding and breathless with consternation,
sought refuge in the mosques. The mosques
were battered down and set on fire, and the
<pb n='312'/><anchor id='Pg312'/>
wretched inmates perished miserably. The calm
yet terrible energy with which Napoleon annihilated
<q>the murderers of the French,</q> sent a
thrill of dismay through Egypt. A large body
of Turks, who had surprised and assassinated a
party of the French, intrenched themselves in a
small village. Their doom was sealed. The
next day a long line of asses, heavily laden with
sacks, was seen entering the gates of Cairo.
The mysterious procession proceeded to the public
square. The sacks were opened, and the
ghastly, gory heads of the assassins were rolled
upon the pavements. The city gazed upon the
spectacle with horror. <q>Such,</q> said Napoleon,
sternly, <q>is the doom of murderers.</q> This language
of energetic action was awfully eloquent.
It was heard and heeded. It accomplished the
purpose for which it was uttered. Neither Turk
nor Arab ventured again to raise the dagger
against Napoleon. Egypt felt the spell of the
mighty conqueror, and stood still, while he gathered
his strength to encounter England, and
Russia, and Turkey in their combined power.
What comment shall be made upon this horrible
transaction. It was the stern necessity of diabolical
war. <q>My soldiers,</q> said Napoleon, <q>are
my children.</q> The lives of thirty thousand
Frenchmen were in his keeping. Mercy to the
barbaric and insurgent Turks would have been
counted weakness, and the bones of Napoleon
and of his army would soon have whitened the
sands of the desert. War is a wholesale system
of brutality and carnage. The most revolting,
execrable details are essential to its vigorous
execution. Bomb-shells can not be thrown affectionately.
Charges of cavalry can not be made
with a meek and lowly spirit. Red-hot shot,
falling into the beleagured city, will not turn
from the cradle of the infant, or from the couch
of the dying maiden. These horrible scenes
must continue to be enacted till the nations of
the earth shall learn war no more.
</p>

<p>
Early in January, Napoleon received intelligence
that the vanguard of the Syrian army,
with a formidable artillery train, and vast military
stores, which had been furnished from the English
ships, had invaded Egypt, on the borders
of the great Syrian desert, and had captured El
Arish. He immediately resolved to anticipate
the movement of his enemies, to cross the desert
with the rapidity of the wind, to fall upon
the enemy unawares, and thus to cut up this
formidable army before it could be strengthened
by the co-operation of the host assembled at
Rhodes.
</p>

<p>
Napoleon intended to rally around his standard
the Druses of Mount Lebanon, and all the
Christian tribes of Syria, who were anxiously
awaiting his approach, and having established
friendly relations with the Ottoman Porte, to
march, with an army of an hundred thousand
auxiliaries, upon the Indus, and drive the English
out of India. As England was the undisputed
mistress of the sea, this was the only point
where Republican France could assail its unrelenting
foe. The imagination of Napoleon was
lost in contemplating the visions of power and
of empire thus rising before him.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p312.png' rend='width: 70%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: The Dromedary Regiment.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
For such an enterprise the ambitious general,
with an army of but ten thousand men, commenced
his march over the desert, one hundred
and fifty miles broad, which separates Africa
from Asia. The Pacha of Syria, called Achmet
the <hi rend='italic'>Butcher</hi>, from his merciless ferocity, was
execrated by the Syrians. Napoleon had received
delegations from the Christian tribes entreating
him to come for their deliverance from the most
intolerable oppression, and assuring him of their
readiness to join his standard. The English,
to divert the attention of Napoleon from his
project upon Syria, commenced the bombardment
of Alexandria. He understood the object
of the unavailing attack, and treated it with disdain.
He raised a regiment of entirely a new
<pb n='313'/><anchor id='Pg313'/>
kind, called the dromedary regiment. Two men,
seated back to back, were mounted on each
dromedary; and such was the strength and endurance
of these animals, that they could thus
travel ninety miles without food, water, or rest.
This regiment was formed to give chase to the
Arab robbers who, in fierce banditti bands, were
the scourge of Egypt. The marauders were
held in terror by the destruction with which they
were overwhelmed by these swift avengers.
Napoleon himself rode upon a dromedary. The
conveyance of an army of ten thousand men,
with horses and artillery, across such an apparently
interminable waste of shifting sand, was
attended with inconceivable suffering. To allay
the despair of the soldiers, Napoleon, ever calm
and unagitated in the contemplation of any catastrophe
however dreadful, soon dismounted, and
waded through the burning sands by the side of
the soldiers, sharing the deprivations and the
toils of the humblest private in the ranks. Five
days were occupied in traversing this forlorn
waste. Water was carried for the troops in
skins. At times portions of the army, almost
perishing with thirst, surrendered themselves to
despair. The presence of Napoleon, however,
invariably reanimated hope and courage. The
soldiers were ashamed to complain when they
saw their youthful leader, pale and slender, and
with health seriously impaired, toiling along by
their side, sharing cheerfully all their privations
and fatigues. The heat of these glowing deserts,
beneath the fierce glare of a cloudless sun, was
almost intolerable. At one time, when nearly
suffocated by the intense heat, while passing by
some ruins, a common soldier yielded to Napoleon
the fragments of a pillar, in whose refreshing
shadow he contrived, for a few moments, to shield
his head. <q>And this,</q> said Napoleon, <q>was no
trifling concession.</q> At another time a party of
the troops got lost among the sand hills and
nearly perished. Napoleon took some Arabs on
dromedaries, and hastened in pursuit of them.
When found they were nearly dead from thirst,
fatigue, and despair. Some of the younger soldiers,
in their frenzy, had broken their muskets
and thrown them away. The sight of their beloved
general revived their hopes, and inspired
them with new life. Napoleon informed them
that provisions and water were at hand. <q>But,</q>
said he, <q>if relief had been longer delayed, would
that have excused your murmurings and loss of
courage? No! soldiers, learn to die with honor.</q>
</p>

<p>
After a march of five days they arrived before
El Arish, one of those small, strongly fortified
military towns, deformed by every aspect of
poverty and wretchedness, with which iron despotism
has filled the once fertile plains of Syria.
El Arish was within the boundaries of Egypt.
It had been captured by the Turks, and they had
accumulated there immense magazines of military
stores. It was the hour of midnight when
Napoleon arrived beneath its walls. The Turks,
not dreaming that a foe was near, were roused
from sleep by the storm of balls and shells, shaking
the walls and crushing down through the
roofs of their dwellings. They sprang to their
guns, and, behind the ramparts of stone, fought
with their accustomed bravery. But after a
short and bloody conflict, they were compelled
to retire, and effected a disorderly retreat. The
garrison, in the citadel, consisting of nearly two
thousand men, were taken prisoners. Napoleon
was not a little embarrassed in deciding what to
do with these men. He had but ten thousand
soldiers with whom to encounter the whole
power of the Ottoman Porte, aided by the fleets
of England and Russia. Famine was in his
camp, and it was with difficulty that he could
obtain daily rations for his troops. He could not
keep these prisoners with him. They would eat
the bread for which his army was hungering;
they would demand a strong guard to keep them
from insurrection; and the French army was
already so disproportionate to the number of its
foes, that not an individual could be spared from
active service. They would surely take occasion,
in the perilous moments of the day of battle, to
rise in revolt, and thus, perhaps, effect the total
destruction of the French army. Consequently,
to retain them in the camp was an idea not to be
entertained for a moment. To disarm them, and
dismiss them upon their word of honor no longer
to serve against the French, appeared almost
equally perilous. There was no sense of honor
in the heart of the barbarian Turk. The very
idea of keeping faith with infidels they laughed
to scorn. They would immediately join the
nearest division of the Turkish army, and thus
swell the already multitudinous ranks of the foe,
and even if they did not secure the final defeat
of Napoleon, they would certainly cost him the
lives of many of his soldiers. He could not
supply them with food, neither could he spare
an escort to conduct them across the desert to
Egypt. To shoot them in cold blood was revolting
to humanity. Napoleon, however, generously
resolved to give them their liberty, taking their
pledge that they would no longer serve against
him; and in order to help them keep their word,
he sent a division of the army to escort them, one
day's march, toward Bagdad, whither they promised
to go. But no sooner had the escort commenced
its return to the army, than these men,
between one and two thousand in number, turned
also, and made a straight path for their feet to the
fortress of Jaffa, laughing at the simplicity of
their outwitted foe. But Napoleon was not a
man to be laughed at. This merriment soon
died away in fearful wailings. Here they joined
the marshaled hosts of Achmet the Butcher. The
bloody pacha armed them anew, and placed them
in his foremost ranks, again to pour a shower of
bullets upon the little band headed by Napoleon.
El Arish is in Egypt, eighteen miles from the
granite pillars which mark the confines of Asia
and Africa. Napoleon now continued his march
through a dry, barren, and thirsty land. After
having traversed a dreary desert of an hundred
and fifty miles, the whole aspect of the country
began rapidly to change. The soldiers were delighted
to see the wreaths of vapor gathering in
<pb n='314'/><anchor id='Pg314'/>
the hitherto glowing and cloudless skies. Green
and flowery valleys, groves of olive-trees, and
wood-covered hills, rose, like a vision of enchantment,
before the eye, so long weary of gazing
upon shifting sands and barren rocks. Napoleon
often alluded to his passage across the desert,
remarking that the scene was ever peculiarly
gratifying to his mind. <q>I never passed the
desert,</q> said he, <q>without experiencing very
powerful emotions. It was the image of immensity
to my thoughts. It displayed no limits.
It had neither beginning nor end. It was an
ocean for the foot of man.</q> As they approached
the mountains of Syria, clouds began to darken
the sky, and when a few drops of rain descended,
a phenomenon which they had not witnessed for
many months, the joy of the soldiers was exuberant.
A murmur of delight ran through the army,
and a curious spectacle was presented, as, with
shouts of joy and peals of laughter, the soldiers,
in a body, threw back their heads and opened
their mouths, to catch the grateful drops upon
their dry and thirsty lips.
</p>

<p>
But when dark night came on, and, with saturated
clothing, they threw themselves down, in
the drenching rain, for their night's bivouac, they
remembered with pleasure the star-spangled
firmament and the dry sands of cloudless, rainless
Egypt. The march of a few days brought
them to Gaza. Here they encountered another
division of the Turkish army. Though headed
by the ferocious Achmet himself, the Turks were,
in an hour, dispersed before the resistless onset
of the French, and all the military stores, which
had been collected in the place, fell into the hands
of the conqueror. But perils were now rapidly
accumulating around the adventurous band. England,
with her invincible fleet, was landing men,
and munitions of war and artillery, and European
engineers, to arrest the progress of the audacious
and indefatigable victor. The combined squadrons
of Turkey and Russia, also, were hovering
along the coast, to prevent any possible supplies
from being forwarded to Napoleon from Alexandria.
Thirty thousand Turks, infantry and horsemen,
were marshaled at Damascus. Twenty
thousand were at Rhodes. Through all the
ravines of Syria, the turbaned Musselmans, with
gleaming sabres, were crowding down to swell
the hostile ranks, already sufficiently numerous
to render Napoleon's destruction apparently certain.
Still unintimidated, Napoleon pressed on,
with the utmost celerity, into the midst of his
foes. On the 3d of March, twenty-three days after
leaving Cairo, he arrived at Jaffa, the ancient
Joppa. This place, strongly garrisoned, was surrounded
by a massive wall flanked by towers.
Napoleon had no heavy battering train, for such
ponderous machines could not be dragged across
the desert. He had ordered some pieces to be
forwarded to him from Alexandria, by small
vessels, which could coast near the shore. But
they had been intercepted and taken by the vigilance
of the English cruisers. Not an hour,
however, was to be lost. From every point in
the circumference of the circle, of which his little
band was the centre, the foe was hurrying to
meet him. The sea was whitened with their
fleets, and the tramp of their dense columns
shook the land. His only hope was, by rapidity
of action, to defeat the separate divisions before
all should unite. With his light artillery he
battered a breach in the walls, and then, to save
the effusion of blood, sent a summons to the commander
to surrender. The barbarian Turk, regardless
of the rules of civilized warfare, cut off
the head of the unfortunate messenger, and raised
the ghastly, gory trophy, upon a pole, from one
of the towers. This was his bloody defiance and
his threat. The enraged soldiers, with extraordinary
intrepidity, rushed in at the breach and
took sanguinary vengeance. The French suffered
very severely, and the carnage, on both
sides, was awful. Nothing could restrain the
fury of the assailants, enraged at the wanton
murder of their comrade. For many hours a
scene of horror was exhibited in the streets of
Jaffa, which could hardly have been surpassed
had the conflict raged between fiends in the
world of woe. Earth has never presented a
spectacle more horrible than that of a city taken
by assault. The vilest and the most abandoned
of mankind invariably crowd into the ranks of an
army. Imagination shrinks appalled from the
contemplation of the rush of ten thousand demons,
infuriated and inflamed, into the dwellings
of a crowded city.
</p>

<p>
Napoleon, shocked at the outrages which were
perpetrated, sent two of his aids to appease the
fury of the soldiers, and to stop the massacre.
Proceeding upon this message of mercy, they
advanced to a large building where a portion of
the garrison had taken refuge. The soldiers
were shooting them as they appeared at the windows,
battering the doors with cannon-balls, and
setting fire to the edifice, that all might be consumed
together. The Turks fought with the
energies of despair. These were the men who
had capitulated at El Arish, and who had violated
their parole. They now offered to surrender
again, if their lives might be spared. The aids,
with much difficulty, rescued them from the rage
of the maddened soldiers, and they were conducted,
some two thousand in number, as prisoners
into the French camp. Napoleon was walking
in front of his tent, when he saw this multitude
of men approaching. The whole dreadfulness
of the dilemma in which he was placed
flashed upon him instantaneously. His countenance
fell, and in tones of deep grief he exclaimed,
<q>What do they wish me to do with
these men? Have I food for them&mdash;ships to
convey them to Egypt or France? Why have
they served me thus?</q> The aids excused themselves
for taking them prisoners, by pleading that
he had ordered them to go and stop the carnage.
<q>Yes!</q> Napoleon replied sadly, <q>as to women,
children, and old men, all the peaceable inhabitants,
but not with respect to armed soldiers. It
was your duty to die, rather than bring these unfortunate
creatures to me. What do you want
me to do with them?</q>
</p>

<pb n='315'/><anchor id='Pg315'/>

<p>
A council of war was immediately held in the
tent of Napoleon, to decide upon their fate. Long
did the council deliberate, and, finally, it adjourned
without coming to any conclusion. The
next day the council was again convened. All
the generals of division were summoned to attend.
For many anxious hours they deliberated,
sincerely desirous of discovering any measures
by which they might save the lives of the unfortunate
prisoners. The murmurs of the French
soldiers were loud and threatening. They complained
bitterly of having their scanty rations
given to the prisoners; of having men again liberated
who had already broken their pledge of
honor, and had caused the death of many of their
comrades. General Bon represented that the
discontent was so deep and general, that unless
something were expeditiously done, a serious revolt
in the army was to be apprehended. Still the
council adjourned, and the third day arrived without
their being able to come to any conclusion
favorable to the lives of these unfortunate men.
Napoleon watched the ocean with intense solicitude,
hoping against hope that some French vessel
might appear, to relieve him of the fearful burden.
But the evil went on increasing. The murmurs
grew louder. The peril of the army was
real and imminent, and, by the delay, was already
seriously magnified. It was impossible
longer to keep the prisoners in the camp. If set
at liberty, it was only contributing so many more
troops to swell the ranks of Achmet the Butcher,
and thus, perhaps, to insure the total discomfiture
and destruction of the French army. The
Turks spared no prisoners. All who fell into
their hands perished by horrible torture. The
council at last unanimously decided that the men
must be put to death. Napoleon, with extreme
reluctance, signed the fatal order. The melancholy
troop, in the silence of despair, were led,
firmly fettered, to the sand hills, on the sea-coast,
where they were divided into small squares, and
mown down by successive discharges of musketry.
The dreadful scene was soon over, and they
were all silent in death. The pyramid of their
bones still remains in the desert, a frightful memorial
of the horrors of war.
</p>

<p>
As this transaction has ever been deemed the
darkest blot upon the character of Napoleon, it
seems but fair to give his defense in his own
words: <q>I ordered,</q> said Napoleon at St. Helena,
<q>about a thousand or twelve hundred to be
shot. Among the garrison at Jaffa a number of
Turkish troops were discovered, whom I had taken
a short time before at El Arish, and sent to Bagdad,
on their parole not to be found in arms
against me for a year. I had caused them to be
escorted thirty-six miles, on their way to Bagdad,
by a division of my army. But, instead of proceeding
to Bagdad, they threw themselves into
Jaffa, defended it to the last, and cost me the
lives of many of my brave troops. Moreover, before
I attacked the town I sent them a flag of
truce. Immediately after, we saw the head of the
bearer elevated on a pole over the wall. Now,
if I had spared them again, and sent them away
on their parole, they would directly have gone to
Acre, and have played over, for the second time,
the same scene that they had done at Jaffa. In
justice to the lives of my soldiers, as every general
ought to consider himself as their father, and
them as his children, I could not allow this. To
leave as a guard a portion of my army, already
reduced in number in consequence of the breach
of faith of those wretches, was impossible. Indeed,
to have acted otherwise than as I did, would
probably have caused the destruction of my whole
army. I, therefore, availing myself of the rights
of war, which authorize the putting to death prisoners
taken under such circumstances, independent
of the right given to me by having taken the
city by assault, and that of retaliation on the
Turks, ordered that the prisoners, who, in defiance
of their capitulation, had been found bearing
arms against me, should be selected out and shot.
The rest, amounting to a considerable number,
were spared. I would do the same thing again
to-morrow, and so would Wellington, or any general
commanding an army under similar circumstances.</q>
Whatever judgment posterity may pronounce
upon this transaction, no one can see in
it any indication of an innate love of cruelty in
Napoleon. He regarded the transaction as one
of the stern necessities of war. The whole system
is one of unmitigated horror. Bomb-shells
are thrown into cities to explode in the chambers
of maidens and in the cradles of infants, and the
incidental destruction of innocence and helplessness
is disregarded. The execrable ferocity of
the details of war are essential to the system. To
say that Napoleon ought not to have shot these
prisoners, is simply to say that he ought to have
relinquished the contest, to have surrendered himself
and his army to the tender mercies of the
Turk; and to allow England, and Austria, and
Russia, to force back upon the disenthralled
French nation the detested reign of the Bourbons.
England was bombarding the cities of
France, to compel a proud nation to re-enthrone
a discarded and hated king. The French, in self-defense,
were endeavoring to repel their powerful
foe, by marching to India, England's only
vulnerable point. Surely, the responsibility of
this war rests with the assailants, and not with
the assailed. There was a powerful party in the
British Parliament and throughout the nation,
the friends of reform and of popular liberty, who
sympathized entirely with the French in this conflict,
and who earnestly protested against a war
which they deemed impolitic and unjust. But
the king and the nobles prevailed, and as the
French would not meekly submit to their demands,
the world was deluged with blood. <q>Nothing
was easier,</q> says Alison, <q>than to have disarmed
the captives and sent them away.</q> The
remark is unworthy of the eloquent and distinguished
historian. It is simply affirming that
France should have yielded the conflict, and submitted
to British dictation. It would have been
far more in accordance with the spirit of the
events to have said, <q>Nothing was easier than
for England to allow France to choose her own
<pb n='316'/><anchor id='Pg316'/>
form of government.</q> But had this been done,
the throne of England's king, and the castles of
her nobles might have been overturned by the
earthquake of revolution. Alas, for man!
</p>

<p>
Bourrienne, the rejected secretary of Napoleon,
who became the enemy of his former benefactor,
and who, as the minister and flatterer of Louis
XVIII., recorded with caustic bitterness the career
of the great rival of the European kings, thus
closes his narrative of this transaction: <q>I have
related the truth; the whole truth. I assisted
at all the conferences and deliberations, though,
of course, without possessing any deliberative
voice. But I must in candor declare, that had I
possessed a right of voting, my voice would have
been for death. The result of the deliberations,
and the circumstances of the army, would have
constrained me to this. War, unfortunately, offers
instances, by no means rare, in which an immutable
law, of all times and common to all nations,
has decreed that private interests shall succumb
to the paramount good of the public, and
that humanity itself shall be forgotten. It is for
posterity to judge whether such was the terrible
position of Bonaparte. I have a firm conviction
that it was. And this is strengthened by the fact,
that the opinion of the members of the council
was unanimous upon the subject, and that the
order was issued upon their decision. I owe it
also to truth to state, that Napoleon yielded only
at the last extremity, and was, perhaps, one of
those who witnessed the massacre with the deepest
sorrow.</q> Even Sir Walter Scott, who, unfortunately,
allowed his Tory predilections to dim
the truth of his unstudied yet classic page, while
affirming that <q>this bloody deed must always remain
a deep stain upon the character of Napoleon,</q>
is constrained to admit, <q>yet we do not
view it as the indulgence of an innate love of
cruelty; for nothing in Bonaparte's history shows
the existence of that vice; and there are many
things which intimate his disposition to have been
naturally humane.</q>
</p>

<p>
Napoleon now prepared to march upon Acre,
the most important military post in Syria. Behind
its strong ramparts Achmet the Butcher had
gathered all his troops and military stores, determined
upon the most desperate resistance.
Colonel Philippeaux, an emissary of the Bourbons,
and a former school-mate of Napoleon, contributed
all the skill of an accomplished French
engineer in arming the fortifications and conducting
the defense. Achmet immediately sent intelligence
of the approaching attack to Sir Sydney
Smith, who was cruising in the Levant with
an English fleet. He immediately sailed for Acre,
with two ships of the line and several smaller vessels,
and proudly entered the harbor two days before
the French made their appearance, strengthening
Achmet with an abundant supply of engineers,
artillerymen, and ammunition. Most unfortunately
for Napoleon, Sir Sydney, just before
he entered the harbor, captured the flotilla, dispatched
from Alexandria with the siege equipage,
as it was cautiously creeping around the headlands
of Carmel. The whole battering train, amounting
to forty-four heavy guns, he immediately
mounted upon the ramparts, and manned them
with English soldiers. This was an irreparable
loss to Napoleon, but with undiminished zeal
the besiegers, with very slender means, advanced
their works. Napoleon now sent an officer with
a letter to Achmet, offering to treat for peace
<q>Why,</q> said he, in this, <q>should I deprive an
old man, whom I do not know, of a few years of
life? What signify a few leagues more, added
to the countries I have conquered? Since God
has given victory into my hands, I will, like him,
be forgiving and merciful, not only toward the
people, but toward their rulers also.</q> The barbarian
Turk, regardless of the flag of truce, cut
off the head of this messenger, though Napoleon
had taken the precaution to send a Turkish prisoner
with the flag, and raised the ghastly trophy
upon a pole, over his battlements, in savage defiance.
The decapitated body he sewed up in a
sack, and threw it into the sea. Napoleon then
issued a proclamation to the people of Syria:
<q>I am come into Syria,</q> said he, <q>to drive out
the Mamelukes and the army of the Pacha. What
right had Achmet to send his troops to attack me
in Egypt? He has provoked me to war. I have
brought it to him. But it is not on you, inhabitants,
that I intend to inflict its horrors. Remain
quiet in your homes. Let those who have
abandoned them through fear return again. I
will grant to every one the property which he
possesses. It is my wish that the Cadis continue
their functions as usual, and dispense justice;
that religion, in particular, be protected and revered,
and that the mosques should continue to be
frequented by all faithful Mussulmans. It is
from God that all good things come; it is he
who gives the victory. The example of what has
occurred at Gaza and Jaffa ought to teach you
that if I am terrible to my enemies, I am kind to
my friends, and, above all, benevolent and merciful
to the poor.</q>
</p>

<p>
The plague, that most dreadful scourge of the
East, now broke out in the army. It was a new
form of danger, and created a fearful panic. The
soldiers refused to approach their sick comrades,
and even the physicians, terrified in view of the
fearful contagion, abandoned the sufferers to die
unaided. Napoleon immediately entered the hospitals,
sat down by the cots of the sick soldiers,
took their fevered hands in his own, even pressed
their bleeding tumors, and spoke to them words
of encouragement and hope. The dying soldiers
looked upon their heroic and sympathizing friend
with eyes moistened with gratitude, and blessed
him. Their courage was reanimated and thus
they gained new strength to throw off the dreadful
disease. <q>You are right,</q> said a grenadier,
upon whom the plague had made such ravages,
that he could hardly move a limb; <q>your grenadiers
were not made to die in a hospital.</q> The
physicians, shamed by the heroism of Napoleon,
returned to their duty. The soldiers, animated
by the example of their chief, no longer refused
to administer to the wants of their suffering comrades,
and thus the progress of the infection in
<pb n='317'/><anchor id='Pg317'/>
the army was materially arrested. One of the
physicians reproached Napoleon for his imprudence,
in exposing himself to such fearful peril.
He coolly replied, <q>It is but my duty. I am the
commander-in-chief.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p317.png' rend='width: 70%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: The Plague Hospital.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Napoleon now pressed the siege of Acre. It
was the only fortress in Syria which could stop
him. Its subjugation would make him the undisputed
master of Syria. Napoleon had already
formed an alliance with the Druses and other
Christian tribes, who had taken refuge from the
extortions of the Turks, among the mountains
of Lebanon, and they only awaited the capture
of Acre to join his standard in a body, and to
throw off the intolerable yoke of Moslem despotism.
Delegations of their leading men frequently
appeared in the tent of Napoleon, and their prayers
were fervently ascending for the success of
the French arms. That in this conflict Napoleon
was contending on the side of human liberty, and
the allies for the support of despotism, is undeniable.
The Turks were not idle. By vast exertions
they had roused the whole Mussulman
population to march, in the name of the Prophet,
for the destruction of the <q>Christian dogs.</q> An
enormous army was marshaled, and was on its
way for the relief of the beleagured city. Damascus
had furnished its thousands. The scattered
remnants of the fierce Mamelukes, and the mounted
Bedouins of the desert, had congregated, to
rush, with resistless numbers, upon their bold
antagonist.
</p>

<p>
Napoleon had been engaged for ten days in an
almost incessant assault upon the works of Acre,
when the approach of the great Turkish army
was announced. It consisted of about thirty
<pb n='318'/><anchor id='Pg318'/>
thousand troops, twelve thousand of whom were
the fiercest and best-trained horsemen in the
world. Napoleon had but eight thousand effective
men with which to encounter the well-trained
army of Europeans and Turks within the walls
of Acre, and the numerous host rushing to its
rescue. He acted with his usual promptitude.
Leaving two thousand men to protect the works
and cover the siege, he boldly advanced with but
six thousand men, to encounter the thirty thousand
already exulting in his speedy and sure destruction.
Kleber was sent forward with an advance-guard
of three thousand men. Napoleon
followed soon after, with three thousand more.
As Kleber, with his little band, defiled from a
narrow valley at the foot of Mount Tabor, he
entered upon an extended plain. It was early
in the morning of the sixteenth of April. The
unclouded sun was just rising over the hills of
Palestine, and revealed to his view the whole embattled
Turkish host spread out before him. The
eye was dazzled with the magnificent spectacle,
as proud banners and plumes, and gaudy turbans
and glittering steel, and all the barbaric martial
pomp of the East was reflected by the rays of
the brilliant morning. Twelve thousand horsemen,
decorated with the most gorgeous trappings
of military show, and mounted on the fleetest
Arabian chargers, were prancing and curveting
in all directions. A loud and exultant shout of
vengeance and joy, rising like the roar of the
ocean, burst from the Turkish ranks, as soon as
they perceived their victims enter the plain. The
French, too proud and self-confident to retreat
before any superiority in numbers, had barely
time to form themselves into one of Napoleon's
impregnable squares, when the whole cavalcade
of horsemen, with gleaming sabres and hideous
yells, and like the sweep of the wind, came rushing
down upon them. Every man in the French
squares knew that his life depended upon his
immobility; and each one stood, shoulder to
shoulder with his comrades, like a rock. It is
impossible to drive a horse upon the point of a
bayonet. He has an instinct of self-preservation
which no power of the spur can overcome. He
can be driven to the bayonet's point, but if the
bayonet remains firm he will rear and plunge,
and wheel, in defiance of all the efforts of his
rider to force his breast against it. As the immense
mass came thundering down upon the
square, it was received by volcanic bursts of fire
from the French veterans, and horse and riders
rolled together in the dust. Chevaux-de-frise
of bayonets, presented from every side of this
living, flaming citadel, prevented the possibility
of piercing the square. For six long hours this
little band sustained the dreadful and unequal
conflict. The artillery of the enemy plowed their
ranks in vain. In vain the horsemen made reiterated
charges on every side. The French, by
the tremendous fire incessantly pouring from
their ranks, soon formed around them a rampart
of dead men and horses. Behind this horrible
abattis, they bid stern defiance to the utmost fury
of their enemies. Seven long hours passed away
while the battle raged with unabated ferocity.
The mid-day sun was now blazing upon the exhausted
band. Their ammunition was nearly expended.
Notwithstanding the enormous slaughter
they had made, their foes seemed undiminished
in number. A conflict so unequal could not
much longer continue. The French were calling
to their aid a noble despair, expecting there to
perish, but resolved, to a man, to sell their lives
most dearly.
</p>

<p>
Matters were in this state, when at one o'clock
Napoleon, with three thousand men, arrived on
the heights which overlooked the field of battle.
The field was covered with a countless multitude,
swaying to and fro in the most horrible clamor
and confusion. They were canopied with thick
volumes of smoke, which almost concealed the
combatants from view. Napoleon could only distinguish
the French by the regular and unintermitted
volleys which issued from their ranks,
presenting one steady spot, incessantly emitting
lightning flashes, in the midst of the moving multitude
with which it was surrounded. With that
instinctive judgment which enabled him, with the
rapidity of lightning, to adopt the most important
decisions, Napoleon instantly took his resolution.
He formed his little band into two squares, and
advanced in such a manner as to compose, with
the square of Kleber, a triangle inclosing the
Turks. Thus, with unparalleled audacity, with
six thousand men he undertook to surround
thirty thousand of as fierce and desperate soldiers
as the world has ever seen. Cautiously and
silently the two squares hurried on to the relief
of their friends, giving no sign of approach, till
they were just ready to plunge upon the plains.
Suddenly the loud report of a cannon upon the
hills startled with joyful surprise the weary
heroes. They recognized instantly the voice of
Napoleon rushing to their rescue. One wild
shout of almost delirious joy burst from the ranks.
<q>It is Bonaparte! It is Bonaparte!</q> That name
operated as a talisman upon every heart. Tears
of emotion dimmed the eyes of those scarred and
bleeding veterans, as, disdaining longer to act
upon the defensive, they grasped their weapons
with nervous energy, and made a desperate onset
upon their multitudinous foes. The Turks
were assailed by a murderous fire instantaneously
discharged from the three points of this triangle.
Discouraged by the indomitable resolution with
which they had been repulsed, and bewildered by
the triple assault, they broke and fled. The
mighty host, like ocean waves, swept across the
plain, when suddenly it was encountered by one
of the fresh squares, and in refluent surges rolled
back in frightful disorder. A scene of horror
now ensued utterly unimaginable. The Turks
were cut off from retreat in every direction. The
enormous mass of infantry, horse, artillery, and
baggage, was driven in upon itself, in wild and
horrible confusion. From the French squares
there flashed one incessant sheet of flame. Peal
after peal, the artillery thundered in a continuous
roar. These thoroughly-drilled veterans fired with
a rapidity and a precision which seemed to the
<pb n='319'/><anchor id='Pg319'/>
Turks supernatural. An incessant storm of cannon-balls,
grape-shot, and bullets pierced the motley
mass, and the bayonets of the French dripped
with blood.
</p>

<p>
Murat was there, with his proud cavalry&mdash;Murat,
whom Napoleon has described as in battle
probably the bravest man in the world. Of
majestic frame, dressed in the extreme of military
ostentation, and mounted upon the most
powerful of Arabian chargers, he towered, proudly
eminent, above all his band. With the utmost
enthusiasm he charged into the swollen tide of
turbaned heads and flashing scimitars. As his
strong horse reared and plunged in the midst of
the sabre strokes falling swiftly on every side
around him, his white plume, which ever led to victory,
gleamed like a banner over the tumultuous
throng. It is almost an inexplicable development
of human nature to hear Murat exclaim, <q>In the
hottest of this terrible fight, I thought of Christ,
and of his transfiguration upon this very spot, two
thousand years ago, and the reflection inspired
me with ten-fold courage and strength.</q> The
fiend-like disposition created by these horrible
scenes, is illustrated by the conduct of a French
soldier on this occasion. He was dying of a
frightful wound. Still he crawled to a mangled
Mameluke, even more feeble than himself, also
in the agonies of death, and, seizing him by the
throat, tried to strangle him. <q>How can you,</q>
exclaimed a French officer, to the human tiger,
<q>in your condition, be guilty of such an act?</q>
<q>You speak much at your ease,</q> the man replied,
<q>you who are unhurt; but I, while I am
dying, must reap some enjoyment while I can.</q>
</p>

<p>
The victory was complete. The Turkish
army was not merely conquered, it was destroyed.
As that day's sun, vailed in smoke, solemnly
descended, like a ball of fire, behind the hills
of Lebanon, the whole majestic array, assembled
for the invasion of Egypt, and who had boasted
that they were <q>innumerable as the sands of the
sea or as the stars of heaven,</q> had disappeared
to be seen no more. The Turkish camp, with
four hundred camels and an immense booty, fell
into the hands of the victors.
</p>

<p>
This signal victory was achieved by a small
division of Napoleon's army, of but six thousand
men, in a pitched battle, on an open field. Such
exploits history can not record without amazement.
The ostensible and avowed object of Napoleon's
march into Syria was now accomplished.
Napoleon returned again to Acre, to prosecute
with new vigor its siege, for, though the
great army, marshaled for his destruction, was
annihilated, he had other plans, infinitely more
majestic, revolving in his capacious mind. One
evening he was standing with his secretary upon
the mount which still bears the name of Richard
Cœur de Lion, contemplating the smouldering
scene of blood and ruin around him, when, after
a few moments of silent thought, he exclaimed,
<q>Yes, Bourrienne, that miserable fort has cost
me dear. But matters have gone too far not to
make a last effort. The fate of the East depends
upon the capture of Acre. That is the key of
Constantinople or of India. If we succeed in
taking this paltry town, I shall obtain the treasures
of the Pacha, and arms for three hundred
thousand men. I will then raise and arm the
whole population of Syria, already so exasperated
by the cruelty of Achmet, and for whose fall all
classes daily supplicate Heaven. I shall advance
on Damascus and Aleppo. I will recruit my
army, as I advance, by enlisting all the discontented.
I will announce to the people the breaking
of their chains and the abolition of the tyrannical
governments of the Pachas. The Druses
wait but for the fall of Acre, to declare themselves.
I am already offered the keys of Damascus.
My armed masses will penetrate to Constantinople,
and the Mussulman dominion will
be overturned. I shall found in the East a new
and mighty empire, which will fix my position
with posterity.</q>
</p>

<p>
With these visions animating his mind, and
having fully persuaded himself that he was the
child of destiny, he prosecuted, with all possible
vigor, the siege of Acre. But English and Russian
and Turkish fleets were in that harbor.
English generals, and French engineers, and European
and Turkish soldiers, stood, side by side,
behind those formidable ramparts, to resist the
utmost endeavors of their assailants, with equal
vigor, science, and fearlessness. No pen can describe
the desperate conflicts and the scenes of
carnage which ensued. Day after day, night after
night, and week after week, the horrible slaughter,
without intermission, continued. The French
succeeded in transporting, by means of their
cruisers, from Alexandria, a few pieces of heavy
artillery, and the walls of Acre were reduced to
a pile of blackened ruins. The streets were
plowed up, and the houses blown down by bomb-shells.
Bleeding forms, blackened with smoke,
and with clothing burnt and tattered, rushed
upon each other, with dripping sabres and bayonets,
and with hideous yells which rose even
above the incessant thunders of the cannonade.
The noise, the uproar, the flash of guns, the enveloping
cloud of sulphurous smoke converting
the day into hideous night, and the unintermitted
flashes of musketry and artillery, transforming
night into lurid and portentous day, the forms of
the combatants, gliding like spectres, with demoniacal
fury through the darkness, the blast of
trumpets, the shout of onset, the shriek of death,
presented a scene which no tongue can tell nor
imagination conceive. There was no time to
bury the dead, and the putrefaction of hundreds
of corpses under that burning sun added appalling
horrors. To the pure spirits of a happier
world, in the sweet companionship of celestial
mansions, loving and blessing each other, it must
have appeared a spectacle worthy of pandemonium.
And yet the human heart is so wicked,
that it can often, forgetting the atrocity of such
a scene, find a strange pleasure in the contemplation
of its energy and its heroism. We are
indeed a fallen race.
</p>

<p>
There were occasional lulls in this awful storm,
during which each party would be rousing its
<pb n='320'/><anchor id='Pg320'/>
energies for more terrible collision. The besiegers
burrowed mines deep under the foundations
of walls and towers, and with the explosion of
hundreds of barrels of gunpowder, opened volcanic
craters, blowing men and rocks into hideous
ruin. In the midst of the shower of destruction
darkening the skies, the assailants rushed, with
sabres and dripping bayonets, to the assault.
The onset, on the part of the French, was as furious
and desperate as mortal man is capable of
making. The repulse was equally determined
and fearless.
</p>

<p>
Sir Sydney Smith conducted the defense, with
the combined English and Turkish troops. He
displayed consummate skill, and unconquerable
firmness, and availed himself of every weapon of
effective warfare. Conscious of the earnest desire
of the French soldiers to return to France,
and of the despair with which the army had been
oppressed when the fleet was destroyed, and thus
all hope of return was cut off, he circulated a
proclamation among them, offering to convey
safely to France every soldier who would desert
from the standard of Napoleon. This proclamation,
in large numbers, was thrown from the ramparts
to the French troops. A more tempting offer
could not have been presented, and yet so strong
was the attachment of the soldiers for their chief,
that it is not known that a single individual availed
himself of the privilege. Napoleon issued a
counter proclamation to his army, in which he
asserted that the English commodore had actually
gone mad. This so provoked Sir Sydney, that
he sent a challenge to Napoleon to meet him in
single combat. The young general proudly replied,
<q>If Sir Sydney will send Marlborough
from his grave, to meet me, I will think of it.
In the mean time, if the gallant commodore wishes
to display his personal prowess, I will neutralize
a few yards of the beach, and send a tall
grenadier, with whom he can run a tilt.</q>
</p>

<p>
In the progress of the siege, Gen. Caffarelli
was struck by a ball and mortally wounded.
For eighteen days he lingered in extreme pain,
and then died. Napoleon was strongly attached
to him, and during all the period, twice every
day, made a visit to his couch of suffering. So
great was his influence over the patient, that
though the wounded general was frequently delirious,
no sooner was the name of Napoleon announced,
than he became perfectly collected, and
conversed coherently.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p320.png' rend='width: 70%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: The Bomb-Shell.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The most affecting proofs were frequently
given of the entire devotion of the troops to Napoleon.
One day, while giving some directions
in the trenches, a shell, with its fuse fiercely
burning, fell at his feet. Two grenadiers, perceiving
his danger, instantly rushed toward him,
encircled him in their arms, and completely shielded
every part of his body with their own. The
shell exploded, blowing a hole in the earth sufficiently
large to bury a cart and two horses. All
three were tumbled into the excavation, and
covered with stones and sand. One of the men
was rather severely wounded; Napoleon escaped
with but a few slight bruises. He immediately
elevated both of these heroes to the rank of officers.
</p>

<p>
<q>Never yet, I believe,</q> said Napoleon, <q>has
there been such devotion shown by soldiers to their
general, as mine have manifested for me. At
Arcola, Colonel Muiron threw himself before me,
covered my body with his own, and received the
<pb n='321'/><anchor id='Pg321'/>
blow which was intended for me. He fell at my
feet, and his blood spouted up in my face. In
all my misfortunes never has the soldier been
wanting in fidelity&mdash;never has man been served
more faithfully by his troops. With the last
drop of blood gushing out of their veins, they exclaimed,
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Vive Napoleon</foreign>.</q>
</p>

<p>
The siege had now continued for sixty days.
Napoleon had lost nearly three thousand men,
by the sword and the plague. The hospitals
were full of the sick and the wounded. Still,
Napoleon remitted not his efforts. <q>Victory,</q>
said he, <q>belongs to the most persevering.</q>
Napoleon had now expended all his cannon-balls.
By a singular expedient he obtained a fresh supply.
A party of soldiers was sent upon the
beach, and set to work, apparently throwing up
a rampart for the erection of a battery. Sir
Sydney immediately approached with the English
ships, and poured in upon them broadside after
broadside from all his tiers. The soldiers, who
perfectly comprehended the joke, convulsed with
laughter, ran and collected the balls as they rolled
over the sand. Napoleon ordered a dollar to
be paid to the soldiers for each ball thus obtained.
When this supply was exhausted, a few horsemen
or wagons were sent out upon the beach,
as if engaged in some important movement, when
the English commodore would again approach and
present them, from his plethoric magazines, with
another liberal supply. Thus for a long time
Napoleon replenished his exhausted stores.
</p>

<p>
One afternoon in May, a fleet of thirty sail of
the line was descried in the distant horizon, approaching
Acre. All eyes were instantly turned
in that direction. The sight awakened intense
anxiety in the hearts of both besiegers and besieged.
The French hoped that they were
French ships conveying to them succors from
Alexandria or from France. The besieged flattered
themselves that they were friendly sails,
bringing to them such aid as would enable them
effectually to repulse their terrible foes. The
English cruisers immediately stood out of the
bay to reconnoitre the unknown fleet. Great
was the disappointment of the French when they
saw the two squadrons unite, and the crescent
of the Turk, and the pennant of England, in
friendly blending, approach the bay together.
The Turkish fleet brought a reinforcement of
twelve thousand men, with an abundant supply
of military stores. Napoleon's only hope was to
capture the place before the disembarkation of
these reinforcements. Calculating that the landing
could not be effected in less than six hours,
he resolved upon an immediate assault. In the
deepening twilight, a black and massy column,
issued from the trenches, and advanced, with the
firm and silent steps of utter desperation, to the
breach. The besieged knowing that, if they
could hold out but a few hours longer, deliverance
was certain, were animated to the most determined
resistance. A horrible scene of slaughter
ensued. The troops, from the ships, in the utmost
haste, were embarked in the boats, and
were pulling, as rapidly as possible, across the
bay, to aid their failing friends. Sir Sydney himself
headed the crews of the ships, and led them
armed with pikes to the breach. The assailants
gained the summit of the heap of stones into
which the wall had been battered, and even
forced their way into the garden of the pacha.
But a perfect swarm of janizaries suddenly
poured in upon them, with the keen sabre in one
hand, and the dagger in the other, and in a few
moments they were all reduced to headless
trunks. The Turks gave no quarter. The remorseless
Butcher sat in the court-yard of his
palace, paying a liberal reward for the gory head
of every infidel which was laid at his feet. He
smiled upon the ghastly trophies heaped up in
piles around him. The chivalric Sir Sydney must
at times have felt not a little abashed in contemplating
the deeds of his allies. He was, however,
fighting to arrest the progress of free institutions,
and the scimitar of the Turk was a fitting
instrument to be employed in such a service.
In promotion of the same object, but a
few years before, the <q>tomahawk and scalping-knife
of the savage</q> had been called into requisition,
to deluge the borders of our own land with
blood. Napoleon was contending to wrest from
the hand of Achmet the Butcher, his bloody
scimitar. Sir Sydney, with the united despots
of Turkey and of Russia, was struggling to help
him retain it.
</p>

<p>
Sir Sydney also issued a proclamation to the
Druses, and other Christian tribes of Syria, urging
them to trust to the faith of a <q>Christian
knight,</q> rather than to that of an <q>unprincipled
renegado.</q> But the <q>Christian knight,</q> in the
hour of victory, forgot the poor Druses, and they
were left, without even one word of sympathy,
to bleed, during ages whose limits can not yet
be seen, beneath the dripping yataghan of the
Moslem. Column after column of the French
advanced to the assault, but all were repulsed
with dreadful slaughter. Every hour the strength
of the enemy was increasing. Every hour the
forces of Napoleon were melting away, before
the awful storm sweeping from the battlements.
In these terrific conflicts, where immense masses
were contending hand to hand, it was found that
the scimitar of the Turk was a far more efficient
weapon of destruction than the bayonet of the
European.
</p>

<p>
Success was now hopeless. Sadly Napoleon
made preparations to relinquish the enterprise.
He knew that a formidable Turkish army, aided
by the fleets of England and Russia, was soon to
be conveyed from Rhodes to Egypt. Not an
hour longer could he delay his return to meet it.
Had not Napoleon been crippled by the loss of his
fleet at Aboukir, victory at Acre would have been
attained without any difficulty. The imagination
is bewildered in contemplating the results
which might have ensued. Even without the
aid of the fleet, but for the indomitable activity,
courage, and energy of Sir Sydney Smith, Acre
would have fallen, and the bloody reign of the
Butcher would have come to an end. This destruction
of Napoleon's magnificent anticipations
<pb n='322'/><anchor id='Pg322'/>
of Oriental conquest must have been a bitter
disappointment. It was the termination of the
most sanguine hope of his life. And it was a
lofty ambition in the heart of a young man of
twenty-six, to break the chains which bound the
countless millions of Asia, in the most degrading
slavery, and to create a boundless empire such
as earth had never before seen, which should develop
all the physical, intellectual, and social
energies of man.
</p>

<p>
History can record with unerring truth the
<emph>deeds</emph> of man and his <emph>avowed designs</emph>. The attempt
to delineate the conflicting <emph>motives</emph>, which
stimulate the heart of a frail mortal, are hazardous.
Even the most lowly Christian finds unworthy
motives mingling with his best actions.
Napoleon was not a Christian. He had learned
no lessons in the school of Christ. Did he merely
wish to aggrandize himself, to create and perpetuate
his own renown, by being the greatest
and the best monarch earth has ever known?
This is not a Christian spirit. But it is not like
the spirit which demonized the heart of Nero,
which stimulated the lust of Henry the Eighth,
which fired the bosom of Alexander with his invincible
phalanxes, and which urged Tamerlane,
with his mounted hordes, to the field of blood.
Our Saviour was entirely regardless of self in his
endeavors to bless mankind. Even Washington,
who though one of the best of mortals, must be
contemplated at an infinite distance from the Son
of God, seemed to forget himself in his love for
his country. That absence of regard for self can
not be so distinctly seen in Napoleon. He wished
to be the great benefactor of the world, elevating
the condition and rousing the energies of
man, not that he might obtain wealth and live in
splendor, not that he might revel in voluptuous
indulgences, but apparently that his own name
might be embalmed in glory. This is not a holy
motive. Neither is it degrading and dishonorable.
We hate the mercenary despot. We despise
the voluptuary. But history can not justly
consign Napoleon either to hatred or to contempt.
Had Christian motives impelled him, making all
due allowance for human frailty, he might have
been regarded as a saint. Now he is but a hero.
</p>

<p>
The ambitious conqueror who invades a peaceful
land, and with fire and blood subjugates a
timid and helpless people, that he may bow their
necks to the yoke of slavery, that he may doom
them to ignorance and degradation, that he may
extort from them their treasures by the energies
of the dungeon, the scimetar, and the bastinado,
consigning the millions to mud hovels, penury,
and misery, that he and his haughty parasites
may revel in voluptuousness and splendor, deserves
the execrations of the world. Such were
the rulers of the Orient. But we can not with
equal severity condemn the ambition of him, who
marches not to forge chains, but to break them;
not to establish despotism, but to assail despotic
usurpers; not to degrade and impoverish the
people, but to ennoble, and to elevate, and to enrich
them; not to extort from the scanty earnings
of the poor the means of living in licentiousness
and all luxurious indulgence, but to
endure all toil, all hardship, all deprivation cheerfully,
that the lethargic nations may be roused to
enterprise, to industry, and to thrift. Such was
the ambition of Napoleon. Surely it was lofty.
But far more lofty is that ambition of which
Christ is the great exemplar, which can bury self
entirely in oblivion.
</p>

<p>
Twenty years after the discomfiture at Acre,
Napoleon, when imprisoned upon the Rock of St.
Helena, alluded to these dreams of his early life.
<q>Acre once taken,</q> said he; <q>the French army
would have flown to Aleppo and Damascus. In
the twinkling of an eye it would have been on
the Euphrates. The Christians of Syria, the
Druses, the Christians of Armenia, would have
joined it. The whole population of the East
would have been agitated.</q> Some one said, he
would have soon been reinforced by one hundred
thousand men. <q>Say rather, six hundred thousand,</q>
Napoleon replied. <q>Who can calculate
what would have happened! I would have
reached Constantinople and the Indies&mdash;I would
have changed the face of the world.</q>
</p>

<p>
The manner in which Napoleon bore this disappointment
most strikingly illustrates the truth
of his own remarkable assertion. <q>Nature seems
to have calculated that I should endure great reverses.
She has given me a mind of marble.
Thunder can not ruffle it. The shaft merely
glides along.</q> Even his most intimate friends
could discern no indications of discontent. He
seemed to feel that it was not his destiny to found
an empire in the East, and, acquiescing without
a murmur, he turned his attention to other enterprises.
<q>That man,</q> said he, with perfect
good-nature, speaking of Sir Sydney Smith,
<q>made me miss my destiny.</q> Napoleon ever
manifested the most singular magnanimity in recognizing
the good qualities of his enemies. He
indulged in no feelings of exasperation toward
Sir Sydney, notwithstanding his agency in frustrating
the most cherished plan of his life.&mdash;Wurmser,
with whom he engaged in such terrible
conflicts in Italy, he declared to be a brave
and magnanimous foe; and, in the hour of triumph,
treated him with a degree of delicacy and
generosity which could not have been surpassed
had his vanquished antagonist been his intimate
friend. Of Prince Charles, with whom he fought
repeated and most desperate battles in his march
upon Vienna, he remarked, <q>He is a <emph>good man</emph>,
which includes every thing when said of a prince.
He is incapable of a dishonorable action.</q> And
even of his eccentric and versatile antagonist at
Acre, Napoleon says, with great impartiality and
accuracy of judgment, <q>Sir Sydney Smith is a
brave officer. He displayed considerable ability
in the treaty for the evacuation of Egypt by the
French. He also manifested great honor in
sending immediately to Kleber the refusal of Lord
Keith to ratify the treaty, which saved the French
army. If he had kept it a secret for seven or
eight days longer, Cairo would have been given
up to the Turks, and the French army would
have been obliged to surrender to the English.
<pb n='323'/><anchor id='Pg323'/>
He also displayed great humanity and honor in
all his proceedings toward the French who fell
into his hands. He is active, intelligent, intriguing,
and indefatigable; but I believe that he
is half crazy. The chief cause of the failure at
Acre was, that he took all my battering train,
which was on board several small vessels. Had
it not been for that I should have taken Acre in
spite of him. He behaved very bravely. He
sent me, by means of a flag of truce, a lieutenant
or midshipman, with a letter containing a challenge
to me, to meet him in some place he pointed
out, in order to fight a duel. I laughed at
this, and sent him back an intimation that when
he brought Marlborough to fight me, I would
meet him. Notwithstanding this, I like the character
of the man. He has certain good qualities,
and, as an old enemy, I should like to see him.</q>
</p>

<p>
A minute dissector of human nature may discern,
in this singular candor, a destitution of
earnestness of principle. The heart is incapable
of this indifference, when it cherishes a profound
conviction of right and wrong. It is undoubtedly
true that Napoleon encountered his foes upon
the field of battle, with very much the same feeling
with which he would meet an opponent in a
game of chess. These wars were fierce conflicts
between the kings and the people; and Napoleon
was not angry with the kings for defending
strongly their own cause. There were of course
moments of irritation, but his prevailing feeling
was that his foes were to be conquered, not condemned.
At one time he expressed much surprise
in perceiving that Alexander of Russia had
allowed feelings of personal hostility to enter into
the conflict. A chess-player could not have manifested
more unaffected wonder, in finding his
opponent in a rage at the check of his king.
Napoleon does not appear often to have acted
from a deep sense of moral obligation. His
justice, generosity, and magnanimity were rather
the instinctive impulses of a noble nature, than
the result of a profound conviction of duty. We
see but few indications, in the life of Napoleon,
of tenderness of conscience. That faculty needs
a kind of culture which Napoleon never enjoyed.
</p>

<p>
He also cherished the conviction that his opponents
were urged on by the same destiny by
which he believed himself to be impelled. <q>I
am well taught,</q> said Dryfesdale, <q>and strong
in the belief, that man does naught of himself.
He is but the foam upon the billow, which rises,
bubbles, and bursts, not by its own efforts, but
by the mightier impulse of fate, which urges
him.</q> The doctrine called <emph>destiny</emph> by Napoleon,
and <emph>philosophical necessity</emph> by Priestley, and <emph>divine
decrees</emph> by Calvin, assuming in each mind characteristic
modifications, indicated by the name
which each assigned to it, is a doctrine which
often nerves to the most heroic and virtuous endeavors,
and which is also capable of the most
awful perversion.
</p>

<p>
Napoleon was an inveterate enemy to dueling,
and strongly prohibited it in the army. One
evening in Egypt, at a convivial party, General
Lanusse spoke sarcastically respecting the condition
of the army. Junot, understanding his
remarks to reflect upon Napoleon, whom he almost
worshiped, was instantly in a flame, and
stigmatized Lanusse as a traitor. Lanusse retorted
by calling Junot a scoundrel. Instantly
swords were drawn, and all were upon their feet,
for such words demanded blood. <q>Hearken,</q>
said Junot, sternly, <q>I called you a traitor; I do
not think that you are one. You called me a
scoundrel; you know that I am not such. But
we must fight. One of us must die. I hate you,
for you have abused the man whom I love and
admire, as much as I do God, if not more.</q> It
was a dark night. The whole party, by the light
of torches, proceeded to the bottom of the garden
which sloped to the Nile, when the two half inebriated
generals cut at each other with their
swords, until the head of Lanusse was laid open,
and the bowels of Junot almost protruded from a
frightful wound. When Napoleon, the next
morning, heard of the occurrence, he was exceedingly
indignant. <q>What?</q> exclaimed he,
<q>are they determined to cut each other's throats?
Must they go into the midst of the reeds of the
Nile to dispute it with the crocodiles? Have
they not enough, then, with the Arabs, the plague,
and the Mamelukes? You deserve, Monsieur
Junot,</q> said he, as if his aid were present before
him, <q>you richly deserve, as soon as you get
well, to be put under arrest for a month.</q>
</p>

<p>
In preparation for abandoning the siege of
Acre, Napoleon issued the following proclamation
to his troops. <q>Soldiers! You have traversed
the desert which separates Asia from Africa,
with the rapidity of an Arab force. The army,
which was on its march to invade Egypt, is destroyed.
You have taken its general, its field
artillery, camels, and baggage. You have captured
all the fortified posts, which secure the wells
of the desert. You have dispersed, at Mount
Tabor, those swarms of brigands, collected from
all parts of Asia, hoping to share the plunder of
Egypt. The thirty ships, which, twelve days
since, you saw enter the port of Acre, were destined
for an attack upon Alexandria. But you
compelled them to hasten to the relief of Acre.
Several of their standards will contribute to adorn
your triumphal entry into Egypt. After having
maintained the war, with a handful of men,
during three months, in the heart of Syria, taken
forty pieces of cannon, fifty stands of colors, six
thousand prisoners, and captured or destroyed
the fortifications of Gaza, Jaffa, and Acre, we
prepare to return to Egypt, where, by a threatened
invasion, our presence is imperiously demanded.
A few days longer might give you the hope
of taking the Pacha in his palace. But at this
season the castle of Acre is not worth the loss
of three days, nor the loss of those brave soldiers
who would consequently fall, and who are
necessary for more essential services. Soldiers!
we have yet a toilsome and a perilous task to
perform. After having, by this campaign, secured
ourselves from attacks from the eastward,
it will perhaps be necessary to repel efforts which
may be made from the west.</q>
</p>

<pb n='324'/><anchor id='Pg324'/>

<p>
On the 20th of May, Napoleon, for the first
time in his life, relinquished an enterprise unaccomplished.
An incessant fire was kept up in
the trenches till the last moment, while the baggage,
the sick, and the field artillery were silently
defiling to the rear, so that the Turks had no
suspicion that the besiegers were about to abandon
their works. Napoleon left three thousand
of his troops, slain or dead of the plague, buried
in the sands of Acre. He had accomplished the
ostensible and avowed object of his expedition.
He had utterly destroyed the vast assemblages
formed in Syria for the invasion of Egypt, and
had rendered the enemy, in that quarter, incapable
of acting against him. Acre had been
overwhelmed by his fire, and was now reduced to
a heap of ruins. Those vague and brilliant dreams
of conquest in the East, which he secretly cherished,
had not been revealed to the soldiers.
They simply knew that they had triumphantly
accomplished the object announced to them, in
the destruction of the great Turkish army. Elated
with the pride of conquerors, they prepared
to return, with the utmost celerity, to encounter
another army, assembled at Rhodes, which was
soon to be landed, by the hostile fleet, upon some
part of the shores of Egypt. Thus, while Napoleon
was frustrated in the accomplishment of his
undivulged but most majestic plans, he still appeared
to the world an invincible conqueror.
</p>

<p>
There were, in the hospitals, twelve hundred
sick and wounded. These were to be conveyed
on horses and on litters. Napoleon relinquished
his own horse for the wounded, and toiled along
through the burning sands with the humblest
soldiers on foot. The Druses and other tribes,
hostile to the Porte, were in a state of great dismay
when they learned that the French were retiring.
They knew that they must encounter
terrible vengeance at the hands of Achmet the
Butcher. The victory of the allies riveted upon
them anew their chains, and a wail, which would
have caused the ear of Christendom to tingle,
ascended from terrified villages, as fathers and
mothers and children cowered beneath the storm
of vengeance which fell upon them, from the
hands of the merciless Turk. But England was
too far away for the shrieks to be heard in her
pious dwellings.
</p>

<p>
At Jaffa, among the multitude of the sick, there
were seven found near to death. They were
dying of the plague, and could not be removed.
Napoleon himself fearlessly went into the plague
hospital, passed through all its wards, and spoke
words of sympathy and encouragement to the
sufferers. The eyes of the dying were turned to
him, and followed his steps, with indescribable
affection, as he passed from cot to cot. The
seven who were in such a condition that their
removal was impossible, Napoleon for some time
contemplated with most tender solicitude. He
could not endure the thought of leaving them to
be taken by the Turks; for the Turks tortured to
death every prisoner who fell into their hands.
He at last suggested to the physician the expediency
of administering to them an opium pill,
which would expedite, by a few hours, their death,
and thus save them from the hands of their cruel
foe. The physician gave the highly admired reply,
<q>My profession is to cure, not to kill.</q> Napoleon
reflected a moment in silence, and said no
more upon the subject, but left a rear-guard of
five hundred men to protect them, until the last
should have expired. For this suggestion Napoleon
has been most severely censured. However
much it may indicate mistaken views of
Christian duty, it certainly does not indicate a
cruel disposition. It was his tenderness of heart,
and his love for his soldiers, which led to the
proposal. An unfeeling monster would not have
troubled himself about these few valueless and
dying men; but, without a thought, would have
left them to their fate. In reference to the severity
with which this transaction has been condemned,
Napoleon remarked at St. Helena, <q>I
do not think that it would have been a crime had
opium been administered to them. On the contrary,
I think it would have been a virtue. To
leave a few unfortunate men, who could not
recover, in order that they might be massacred
by the Turks with the most dreadful tortures, as
was their custom, would, I think, have been
cruelty. A general ought to act with his soldiers,
as he would wish should be done to himself.
Now would not any man, under similar
circumstances, who had his senses, have preferred
dying easily, a few hours sooner, rather
than expire under the tortures of those barbarians?
If my own son, and I believe I love my son as
well as any father does his child, were in a similar
situation with these men, I would advise it to be
done. And if so situated myself, I would insist
upon it, if I had sense enough and strength enough
to demand it. However, affairs were not so pressing
as to prevent me from leaving a party to take
care of them, which was done. If I had thought
such a measure as that of giving opium necessary,
I would have called a council of war, have stated
the necessity of it, and have published it in the
order of the day. It should have been no secret.
Do you think, if I had been capable of secretly
poisoning my soldiers, as doing a necessary
action secretly would give it the appearance of a
crime, or of such barbarities as driving my carriage
over the dead, and the still bleeding bodies of the
wounded, that my troops would have fought for
me with an enthusiasm and affection without a
parallel? No, no! I never should have done so
a second time. Some would have shot me in
passing. Even some of the wounded, who had
sufficient strength left to pull a trigger, would
have dispatched me. I never committed a crime
in all my political career. At my last hour I can
assert that. Had I done so, I should not have
been here now. I should have dispatched the
Bourbons. It only rested with me to give my
consent, and they would have ceased to live. I
have, however, often thought since on this point
of morals, and, I believe, if thoroughly considered,
it is always better to suffer a man to terminate
his destiny, be it what it may. I judged so afterward
in the case of my friend Duroc, who, when
<pb n='325'/><anchor id='Pg325'/>
his bowels were falling out before my eyes, repeatedly
cried to me to have him put out of his
misery. I said to him <q>I pity you, my friend,
but there is no remedy, it is necessary to suffer
to the last.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
Sir Robert Wilson recorded, that the merciless
and blood-thirsty monster Napoleon, poisoned at
Jaffa five hundred and eighty of his sick and
wounded soldiers, merely to relieve himself of
the encumbrance of taking care of them. The
statement was circulated, and believed throughout
Europe and America. And thousands still judge
of Napoleon through the influence of such assertions.
Sir Robert was afterward convinced of his
error, and became the friend of Napoleon. When
some one was speaking, in terms of indignation,
of the author of the atrocious libel, Napoleon replied,
<q>You know but little of men and of the
passions by which they are actuated. What
leads you to imagine that Sir Robert is not a
man of enthusiasm and of violent passions, who
wrote what he then believed to be true? He
may have been misinformed and deceived, and
may now be sorry for it. He may be as sincere
now in wishing us well as he formerly was in
seeking to injure us.</q> Again he said, <q>The
fact is that I not only never committed any crime,
but I never even thought of doing so. I have
always marched with the opinions of five or six
millions of men. In spite of all the libels, I have
no fear whatever respecting my fame. Posterity
will do me justice. The truth will be known,
and the good which I have done will be compared
with the faults which I have committed. I am
not uneasy as to the result.</q>
</p>

<p>
Baron Larrey was the chief of the medical
staff. <q>Larrey,</q> said Napoleon to O'Meara,
<q>was the most honest man, and the best friend
to the soldier whom I ever knew. Indefatigable
in his exertions for the wounded, he was seen on
the field of battle, immediately after an action,
accompanied by a train of young surgeons, endeavoring
to discover if any signs of life remained
in the bodies. He scarcely allowed a moment of
repose to his assistants, and kept them ever at
their posts. He tormented the generals, and
disturbed them out of their beds at night, whenever
he wanted accommodations or assistance
for the sick or wounded. They were all afraid
of him, as they knew that if his wishes were not
complied with, he would immediately come and
make a complaint to me.</q> Larrey, on his return
to Europe, published a medical work, which he
dedicated to Napoleon as a tribute due to him for
the care which he always took of the sick and
wounded soldiers. Assulini, another eminent
physician, records, <q>Napoleon, great in every
emergence, braved on several occasions the danger
of contagion. I have seen him in the hospitals
at Jaffa, inspecting the wards, and talking
familiarly with the soldiers attacked by the
plague. This heroic example allayed the fears
of the army, cheered the spirits of the sick, and
encouraged the hospital attendants, whom the
progress of the disease and the fear of contagion
had considerably alarmed.</q>
</p>

<p>
The march over the burning desert was long
and painful, and many of the sick and wounded
perished. The sufferings of the army were inconceivable.
Twelve hundred persons, faint with
disease, or agonized with broken bones or ghastly
wounds, were borne along, over the rough and
weary way, on horseback. Many were so exhausted
with debility and pain that they were
tied to the saddles, and were thus hurried onward,
with limbs freshly amputated and with
bones shivered to splinters. The path of the
army was marked by the bodies of the dead,
which were dropped by the way-side. There
were not horses enough for the sick and the
wounded, though Napoleon and all his generals
marched on foot. The artillery pieces were left
among the sand hills, that the horses might be
used for the relief of the sufferers. Many of the
wounded were necessarily abandoned to perish
by the way-side. Many who could not obtain a
horse, knowing the horrible death by torture
which awaited them, should they fall into the
hands of the Turks, hobbled along with bleeding
wounds in intolerable agony. With most affecting
earnestness, though unavailingly, they implored
their comrades to help them. Misery destroys
humanity. Each one thought only of himself.
Seldom have the demoralizing influences and the
horrors of war been more signally displayed than
in this march of twenty-five days. Napoleon was
deeply moved by the spectacle of misery around
him. One day as he was toiling along through
the sands, at the head of a column, with the
blazing sun of Syria pouring down upon his unprotected
head, with the sick, the wounded, and
the dying, all around him, he saw an officer, in
perfect health, riding on horseback, refusing to
surrender his saddle to the sick. The indignation
of Napoleon was so aroused, that by one
blow from the hilt of his sword he laid the officer
prostrate upon the earth, and then helped
a wounded soldier into his saddle. The deed
was greeted with a shout of acclamation from
the ranks. The <q>recording angel in heaven's
chancery</q> will blot out the record of such violence
with a tear.
</p>

<p>
The historian has no right to draw the vail
over the revolting horrors of war. Though he
may wish to preserve his pages from the repulsive
recital, justice to humanity demands that the
barbarism, the crime, and the cruelty of war
should be faithfully portrayed. The soldiers refused
to render the slightest assistance to the
sick or the wounded. They feared that every
one who was not well was attacked by the
plague. These poor dying sufferers were not
only objects of horror, but also of derision. The
soldiers burst into immoderate fits of laughter in
looking upon the convulsive efforts which the
dying made to rise from the sands upon which
they had fallen. <q>He has made up his account,</q>
said one. <q>He will not get on far,</q> said another.
And when the exhausted wretch fell to rise no
more, they exclaimed, with perfect indifference,
<q>His lodging is secured.</q> The troops were harassed
upon their march by hordes of mounted
<pb n='326'/><anchor id='Pg326'/>
Arabs, ever prowling around them. To protect
themselves from assault, and to avenge attacks,
they fired villages, and burned the fields of grain,
and with bestial fury pursued shrieking maids
and matrons. Such deeds almost invariably attend
the progress of an army, for an army is ever
the resort and the congenial home of the moral
dregs of creation. Napoleon must at times have
been horror-stricken in contemplating the infernal
instrumentality which he was using for the accomplishment
of his purposes. The only excuse
which can be offered for him is, that it
was then as now, the prevalent conviction of
the world that war, with all its inevitable abominations,
is a necessary evil. The soldiers were
glad to be fired upon from a house, for it furnished
them with an excuse for rushing in, and
perpetrating deeds of atrocious violence in its
secret chambers.
</p>

<p>
Those infected by the plague accompanied
the army at some distance from the main body.
Their encampment was always separated from
the bivouacs of the troops, and was with terror
avoided by those soldiers who, without the tremor
of a nerve, could storm a battery. Napoleon,
however, always pitched his tent by their
side. Every night he visited them to see if their
wants were attended to. And every morning he
was present, with parental kindness, to see them
file off at the moment of departure. Such tenderness,
at the hands of one who was filling the
world with his renown, won the hearts of the
soldiers. He merited their love. Even to the
present day the scarred and mutilated victims
of these wars, still lingering in the Hotel des
Invalides at Paris, will flame with enthusiastic
admiration at the very mention of the name of
Napoleon. There is no man, living or dead,
who at the present moment is the object of
such enthusiastic love as Napoleon Bonaparte.
And they who knew him the best love him the
most.
</p>

<p>
One day, on their return, an Arab tribe came
to meet him, to show their respect and to offer
their services as guides. The son of the chief
of the tribe, a little boy about twelve years of
age, was mounted on a dromedary, riding by
the side of Napoleon, and chatting with great
familiarity. <q>Sultan Kebir,</q> said the young
Arab to Napoleon, <q>I could give you good advice,
now that you are returning to Cairo.</q>
<q>Well! speak, my friend,</q> said Napoleon; <q>if
your advice is good I will follow it.</q> <q>I will
tell you what I would do, were I in your place,</q>
the young chief rejoined. <q>As soon as I got to
Cairo, I would send for the richest slave-merchant
in the market, and I would choose twenty
of the prettiest women for myself. I would then
send for the richest jewelers, and would make
them give me up a good share of their stock.
I would then do the same with all the other
merchants. For what is the use of reigning, or
being powerful, if not to acquire riches?</q> <q>But,
my friend,</q> replied Napoleon, <q>suppose it were
more noble to preserve these things for others?</q>
The young barbarian was quite perplexed in endeavoring
to comprehend ambition so lofty, intellectual,
and refined. <q>He was, however,</q>
said Napoleon, <q>very promising for an Arab.
He was lively and courageous, and led his troops
with dignity and order. He is perhaps destined
one day or other, to carry his advice into execution
in the market-place of Cairo.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p326.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Arrival of the Courier.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
At length Napoleon arrived at Cairo, after an
absence of three months. With great pomp and
triumph he entered the city. He found, on his
return to Egypt, that deep discontent pervaded
the army. The soldiers had now been absent
from France for a year. For six months they
had heard no news whatever from home, as not
<pb n='327'/><anchor id='Pg327'/>
a single French vessel had been able to cross
the Mediterranean. Napoleon, finding his plans
frustrated for establishing an empire which should
overshadow all the East, began to turn his
thoughts again to France. He knew, however,
that there was another Turkish army collected
at Rhodes, prepared, in co-operation with the
fleets of Russia and England, to make a descent
on Egypt. He could not think of leaving the
army until that formidable foe was disposed of.
He knew not when or where the landing would
be attempted, and could only wait.
</p>

<p>
One evening, in July, he was walking with a
friend in the environs of Cairo, beneath the
shadow of the Pyramids, when an Arab horseman
was seen, enveloped in a cloud of dust,
rapidly approaching him over the desert. He
brought dispatches from Alexandria, informing
Napoleon that a powerful fleet had appeared in
the Bay of Aboukir, that eighteen thousand
Turks had landed, fierce and fearless soldiers,
each armed with musket, pistol, and sabre; that
their artillery was numerous, and well served by
British officers; that the combined English, Russian,
and Turkish fleets supported the armament
in the bay; that Mourad Bey, with a numerous
body of Mameluke cavalry, was crossing the
desert from Upper Egypt to join the invaders;
that the village of Aboukir had been taken by
the Turks, the garrison cut to pieces, and the
citadel compelled to capitulate. Thus the storm
burst upon Egypt.
</p>

<p>
Napoleon immediately retired to his tent, where
he remained till 3 o'clock the next morning, dictating
orders for the instant advance of the troops;
and for the conduct of those who were to remain
in Cairo, and at the other military stations. At
4 o'clock in the morning he was on horseback,
and the army in full march. The French troops
were necessarily so scattered&mdash;some in Upper
Egypt, eight hundred miles above Cairo, some
upon the borders of the desert to prevent incursions
from Syria, some at Alexandria&mdash;that Napoleon
could take with him but eight thousand
men. By night and by day, through smothering
dust and burning sands, and beneath the rays of
an almost blistering sun, his troops, hungry and
thirsty, with iron sinews, almost rushed along,
accomplishing one of those extraordinary marches
which filled the world with wonder. In seven
days he reached the Bay of Aboukir.
</p>

<p>
It was the hour of midnight, on the 25th of
July, 1799, when Napoleon, with six thousand
men, arrived within sight of the strongly intrenched
camp of the Turks. They had thrown
up intrenchments among the sand-hills on the
shore of the bay. He ascended an eminence
and carefully examined the position of his sleeping
foes. By the bright moonlight he saw the
vast fleet of the allies riding at anchor in the
offing, and his practiced eye could count the
mighty host, of infantry and artillery and horsemen,
slumbering before him. He knew that the
Turks were awaiting the arrival of the formidable
Mameluke cavalry from Egypt, and for still
greater reinforcements, of men and munitions of
war, from Acre, and other parts of Syria. Kleber,
with a division of two thousand of the army,
had not yet arrived. Napoleon resolved immediately
to attack his foes, though they were
eighteen thousand strong. It was indeed an unequal
conflict. These janizaries were the most
fierce, merciless, and indomitable of men; and
their energies were directed by English officers
and by French engineers. Just one year before,
Napoleon with his army had landed upon that
beach. Where the allied fleet now rode so proudly,
the French fleet had been utterly destroyed.
The bosom of Napoleon burned with the desire
to avenge this disaster. As Napoleon stood silently
contemplating the scene, Murat by his
side, he foresaw the long results depending upon
the issue of the conflict. Utter defeat would be
to him utter ruin. A partial victory would but
prolong the conflict, and render it impossible for
him, without dishonor, to abandon Egypt and
return to France. The entire destruction of his
foes would enable him, with the renown of an
invincible conqueror, to leave the army in safety
and embark for Paris, where he doubted not that,
in the tumult of the unsettled times, avenues of
glory would be opened before him. So strongly
was he impressed with the great destinies for
which he believed himself to be created, that,
turning to Murat, he said, <q>This battle will decide
the fate of the world.</q> The distinguished
cavalry commander, unable to appreciate the
grandeur of Napoleon's thoughts, replied, <q>At
least of this army. But every French soldier
feels now that he must conquer or die. And be
assured, if ever infantry were charged to the
teeth by cavalry, the Turks shall be to-morrow
so charged by mine.</q>
</p>

<p>
The first gray of the morning was just appearing
in the East, when the Turkish army
was aroused by the tramp of the French columns,
and by a shower of bomb-shells falling in the
midst of their intrenchments. One of the most
terrible battles recorded in history then ensued.
The awful genius of Napoleon never shone forth
more fearfully than on that bloody day. He
stood upon a gentle eminence, calm, silent, unperturbed,
pitiless, and guided, with resistless
skill, the carnage. The onslaught of the French
was like that of wolves. The Turks were driven
like deer before them. Every man remembered
that in that bay the proud fleet of France had
perished. Every man felt that the kings of Europe
had banded for the destruction of the French
Republic. Every man exulted in the thought
that there were but six thousand French Republicans
to hurl themselves upon England, Russia,
and Turkey combined, nearly twenty thousand
strong. The Turks, perplexed and confounded
by the skill and fury of the assault, were driven
in upon each other in horrible confusion. The
French, trained to load and fire with a rapidity
which seemed miraculous, poured in upon them
a perfect hurricane of bullets, balls, and shells.
They were torn to pieces, mown down, bayoneted,
and trampled under iron hoofs. In utter
consternation, thousands of them plunged into
<pb n='328'/><anchor id='Pg328'/>
the sea, horsemen and footmen, and struggled
in the waves, in the insane attempt to swim to
the ships, three miles distant from the shore.
With terrible calmness of energy Napoleon
opened upon the drowning host the tornado of
his batteries, and the water was swept with
grape-shot as by a hail-storm. The Turks were
on the point of a peninsula. Escape by land
was impossible. They would not ask for quarter.
The silent and proud spirit of Napoleon
was inflamed with the resolve to achieve a victory
which should reclaim the name of Aboukir
to the arms of France. Murat redeemed
his pledge. Plunging with his cavalry into the
densest throng of the enemy, he spurred his fiery
steed, reckless of peril, to the very centre of the
Turkish camp, where stood Mustapha Pacha,
surrounded by his staff. The proud Turk had
barely time to discharge a pistol at his audacious
foe, which slightly wounded Murat, ere the dripping
sabre of the French general severed half of
his hand from the wrist. Thus wounded, the
leader of the Turkish army was immediately
captured, and sent in triumph to Napoleon. As
Napoleon received his illustrious prisoner, magnanimously
desiring to soothe the bitterness of
his utter discomfiture, he courteously said, <q>I
will take care to inform the Sultan of the courage
you have displayed in this battle, though it has
been your misfortune to lose it.</q> <q>Thou mayst
save thyself that trouble,</q> the proud Turk haughtily
replied. <q>My master knows me better than
thou canst.</q>
</p>

<p>
Before 4 o'clock in the afternoon, the whole
Turkish army was destroyed. Hardly an individual
escaped. About two thousand prisoners
were taken in the fort. All the rest perished,
either drowned in the sea, or slain upon the land.
Sir Sydney Smith, who had chosen the position
occupied by the Turkish army, with the utmost
<pb n='329'/><anchor id='Pg329'/>
difficulty avoided capture. In the midst of the terrible
scene of tumult and death, the Commodore
succeeded in getting on board a boat, and was
rowed to his ships. More than twelve thousand
corpses of the turbaned Turks were floating in
the bay of Aboukir, beneath whose crimsoned
waves, but a few months before, almost an equal
number of the French had sunk in death. Such
utter destruction of an army is perhaps unexampled
in the annals of war. If God frowned
upon France in the naval battle of Aboukir, He
as signally frowned upon her foes in this terrific
conflict on the land.
</p>

<p>
The cloudless sun descended peacefully, in
the evening, beneath the blue waves of the Mediterranean.
Napoleon stood at the door of his tent,
calmly contemplating the scene, from whence all
his foes had thus suddenly and utterly vanished.
Just then Kleber arrived, with his division of two
thousand men, for whom Napoleon had not waited.
The distinguished soldier, who had long
been an ardent admirer of Napoleon, was overwhelmed
with amazement in contemplating the
magnitude of the victory. In his enthusiasm he
threw his arms around the neck of his adored
chieftain, exclaiming, <q>Let me embrace you, my
General, you are great as the universe.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p328.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: Napoleon and Kleber.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Egypt was now quiet. Not a foe remained to
be encountered. No immediate attack, from any
quarter, was to be feared. Nothing remained to
be done but to carry on the routine of the administration
of the infant colony. These duties
required no especial genius, and could be very
creditably performed by any respectable governor.
</p>

<p>
It was, however, but a barren victory which
Napoleon had obtained, at such an enormous expenditure
of suffering and of life. It was in vain
for the isolated army, cut off, by the destruction
of its fleet, from all intercourse with Europe, to
think of the invasion of India. The French
troops had exactly <q>caught the Tartar.</q> Egypt
was of no possible avail as a colony, with the
Mediterranean crowded with hostile English, and
Russian, and Turkish cruisers. For the same
reason, it was impossible for the army to leave
those shores and return to France.  Thus the
victorious French, in the midst of all their triumphs,
found that they had built up for themselves
prison walls from which, though they
could repel their enemies, there was no escape.
The sovereignty of Egypt alone was too petty
an affair to satisfy the boundless ambition of Napoleon.
Destiny, he thought, deciding against
an Empire in the East, was only guiding him
back to an Empire in the West.
</p>

<p>
For ten months Napoleon had now received no
certain intelligence respecting Europe. Sir Sydney
Smith, either in the exercise of the spirit of
gentlemanly courtesy, or enjoying a malicious
pleasure in communicating to his victor tidings
of disaster upon disaster falling upon France,
sent to him a file of newspapers full of the most
humiliating intelligence. The hostile fleet, leaving
its whole army of eighteen thousand men,
buried in the sands, or beneath the waves, weighed
anchor and disappeared.
</p>

<p>
Napoleon spent the whole night, with intense
interest, examining those papers. He learned
that France was in a state of indescribable confusion;
that the imbecile government of the Directory,
resorting to the most absurd measures,
was despised and disregarded; that plots and
counter-plots, conspiracies and assassinations
filled the land. He learned, to his astonishment,
that France was again involved in war with
monarchical Europe; that the Austrians had invaded
Italy anew, and driven the French over the
Alps; and that the banded armies of the European
kings were crowding upon the frontiers of
the distracted republic. <q>Ah!</q> he exclaimed to
Bourrienne, <q>my forebodings have not deceived
me. The fools have lost Italy. All the fruit of
our victories has disappeared. I must leave
Egypt. We must return to France immediately,
and, if possible, repair these disasters, and
save France from destruction.</q>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p329.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration: The Return.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
It was a signal peculiarity in the mind of Napoleon
that his decisions appeared to be instinctive
<pb n='330'/><anchor id='Pg330'/>
rather than deliberative. With the rapidity
of the lightning's flash his mind contemplated all
the considerations upon each side of a question,
and instantaneously came to the result. These
judgments, apparently so hasty, combined all
the wisdom which others obtain by the slow and
painful process of weeks of deliberation and uncertainty.
Thus in the midst of the innumerable
combinations of the field of battle, he never suffered
from a moment of perplexity; he never
hesitated between this plan and that plan, but
instantaneously, and without the slightest misgivings,
decided upon that very course, to which
the most slow and mature deliberation would
have guided him. This instinctive promptness
of correct decision was one great secret of his
mighty power. It pertained alike to every subject
with which the human mind could be conversant.
The promptness of his decision was
only equaled by the energy of his execution. He
therefore accomplished in hours that which would
have engrossed the energies of other minds for
days.
</p>

<p>
Thus, in the present case, he decided, upon
the moment, to return to France. The details
of his return, as to the disposition to be made of
the army, the manner in which he would attempt
to evade the British cruisers, and the individuals
he would take with him, were all immediately
settled in his mind. He called Bourrienne, Berthier,
and Gantheaume before him, and informed
them of his decision, enjoining upon them the
most perfect secrecy, lest intelligence of his
preparations should be communicated to the allied
fleet. He ordered Gantheaume immediately
to get ready for sea two frigates from the harbor
of Alexandria, and two small vessels, with
provisions for four hundred men for two months.
Napoleon then returned with the army to Cairo.
He arrived there on the 10th of August, and
again, as a resistless conqueror, entered the city.
He prevented any suspicion of his projected departure,
from arising among the soldiers, by
planning an expedition to explore Upper Egypt.
</p>

<p>
One morning he announced his intention of
going down the Nile, to spend a few days in examining
the Delta. He took with him a small
retinue, and striking across the desert, proceeded
with the utmost celerity to Alexandria, where
they arrived on the 22d of August. Concealed
by the shades of the evening of the same day, he
left the town, with eight selected companions,
and escorted by a few of his faithful guards.
Silently and rapidly they rode to a solitary part
of the bay, the party wondering what this movement
could mean. Here they discovered, dimly
in the distance, two frigates riding at anchor,
and some fishing-boats near the shore, apparently
waiting to receive them. Then Napoleon announced
to his companions that their destination
was France. The joy of the company was inconceivable.
The horses were left upon the
beach, to find their way back to Alexandria.
The victorious fugitives crowded into the boats,
and were rowed out, in the dim and silent
night, to the frigates. The sails were immediately
spread, and before the light of morning
dawned, the low and sandy outline of the Egyptian
shore had disappeared beneath the horizon
of the sea.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Great Objects Attained By Little
Things.</head>

<p>
There is nothing, however small, in nature
that has not its appropriate use&mdash;nothing,
however insignificant it may appear to us, that
has not some important mission to fulfill. The
living dust that swarms in clusters about our
cheese&mdash;the mildew casting its emerald tint over
our preserves&mdash;the lichen and the moss wearing
away the words of grief and honor engraved upon
the tombs of our forefathers, have each their appropriate
work, and are all important in the great
economy of nature. The little moss which so
effectually aroused the emotions of Mungo Park
when far away from his friends and kin, and when
his spirits were almost failing, may teach a moral
lesson to us all, and serve to inspire us with some
of that perseverance and energy to travel through
life, that it did Mungo Park in his journey through
the African desert. By the steady and long-continued
efforts of this fragile little plant, high
mountains have been leveled, which no human
power could have brought from their towering
heights. Adamantine rocks have been reduced
to pebbles; cliffs have mouldered in heaps upon
the shore; and castles and strongholds raised by
the hand of man have proved weak and powerless
under the ravages of this tiny agent, and
become scenes of ruin and desolation&mdash;the habitations
of the owl and the bat. Yet who, to look
upon the lichen, would think it could do all this?&mdash;so
modest that we might almost take it for a
part of the ground upon which we tread. Can
this, we exclaim, be a leveler of mountains and
mausoleums! Contemplate its unobtrusive, humble
course; endowed by nature with an organization
capable of vegetating in the most unpropitious
circumstances&mdash;requiring indeed little more
than the mere moisture of the atmosphere to sustain
it, the lichen sends forth its small filamentous
roots and clings to the hard, dry rock with a most
determined pertinacity. These little fibres, which
can scarcely be discerned with the naked eye, find
their way into the minute crevices of the stone;
now, firmly attached, the rain-drops lodge upon
their fronds or membranaceous scales on the surface,
and filtering to their roots, moisten the space
which they occupy, and the little plant is then
enabled to work itself further into the rock; the
dimensions of the aperture become enlarged, and
the water runs in in greater quantities. This
work, carried on by a legion ten thousand strong,
soon pierces the stony cliff with innumerable fissures,
which being filled with rain, the frost causes
it to split, and large pieces roll down to the levels
beneath, reduced to sand, or to become soil
for the growth of a more exalted vegetation.&mdash;This,
of course, is a work of time&mdash;of generations,
perhaps, measured by the span of human
life; but, undaunted, the mission of the humble
lichen goes on and prospers. Is not this a lesson
<pb n='331'/><anchor id='Pg331'/>
worth learning from the book of nature?
Does it not contain much that we might profit
by, and set us an example that we should do well
to imitate? <q>Persevere, and despise not little
things,</q> is the lesson we draw from it ourselves,
and the poorest and humblest reader of this page
will be able to accomplish great things, if he will
take the precept to himself, engrave it upon his
heart, or hold it constantly before him; depend
upon it, you will gain more inspiration from these
words than from half the wise sayings of the philosophers
of old.
</p>

<p>
But nature is full of examples to stimulate us
to perseverance, and beautiful illustrations of
how much can be achieved by little things&mdash;trifles
unheeded by the multitude. The worms that
we tread in the dust beneath our feet, are the
choicest friends of the husbandman. A tract of
land rendered barren by the incrustation of stones
upon its surface, becomes by their labors a rich
and fertile plain; they loosen and throw up in
nutritious mealy hillocks the hardest and most
unprofitable soil&mdash;the stones disappear, and where
all was sterility and worthlessness, is soon rich
with a luxurious vegetation. We may call to
mind, too, the worm upon the mulberry-tree, and
its miles of fine-spun glistening silk; we may
watch the process of its transformation till the
choice fabric which its patient industry had produced
is dyed by an infusion gained from another
little insect (the Cochineal), and then, endowed
with the glory of tint and softness of texture, it
is cut into robes to deck the beauty of our English
wives and daughters. Yet, those ignorant
of their usefulness would despise these little laborers,
as they do others equally valuable. The
bee and the ant, again, are instances which we
may all observe&mdash;but how few will spare five
minutes to contemplate them. Yet, where is the
man, sluggard though he be, who would not shake
off his slothfulness on observing the patient industry
and frugal economy of the little ant? or
where is the drunkard and spendthrift who could
watch the bee, so busy in garnering up a rich
store for the coming winter&mdash;laboring while the
sun shone, to sustain them when the frost and
rain, and the flowerless plants shut out all means
of gaining their daily bread; and not put his
shoulder to the wheel, and think of old age, and
the clouds that are gathering in the heavens?
The worth of all the delicious sweets we have
derived from the industry of the little bee, is
nothing, when compared with the value of this
moral which they teach us.
</p>

<p>
If we turn from the book of Nature and open
the annals of discovery and science, many instances
of the importance of little things will start
up and crowd around us&mdash;of events which appear
in the lowest degree insignificant, being the cause
of vast and stupendous discoveries. <q>The smallest
thing becomes respectable,</q> says Foster,
<q>when regarded as the commencement of what
has advanced or is advancing into magnificence.
The first rude settlement of Romulus would have
been an insignificant circumstance, and might
justly have sunk into oblivion, if Rome had not
at length commanded the world. The little rill
near the source of one of the great American
rivers is an interesting object to the traveler, who
is apprised as he steps across it, or walks a few
miles along its bank, that this is the stream which
runs so far, and gradually swells into so immense
a flood.</q> By the accidental mixing of a little
nitre and potash, gunpowder was discovered. In
ancient times, before the days of Pliny, some
merchants traveling across a sandy desert, could
find no rock at hand on which to kindle a fire to
prepare their food; as a substitute, they took a
block of alkali from among their heaps of merchandise,
and lit a fire thereon. The merchants
stared with surprise when they saw the huge
block melting beneath the heat, and running
down in a glistening stream as it mingled with
the sand, and still more so, when they discovered
into what a hard and shining substance it had
been transformed. From this, says Pliny, originated
the making of glass. The sunbeams dazzling
on a crystal prism unfolded the whole theory
of colors. A few rude types carved from a
wooden block have been the means of revolutionizing
nations, overthrowing dynasties, and rooting
out the most hardened despotisms&mdash;of driving
away a multitude of imps of superstition,
which for ages had been the terror of the learned,
and of spreading the light of truth and knowledge
from the frontiers of civilization to the coasts of
darkness and barbarism. <q>We must destroy the
Press,</q> exclaimed the furious Wolsey, <q>or the
Press will destroy us.</q> The battle was fought,
the Press was triumphant, and Popery banished
from the shores of Britain. The swinging of a
lamp suspended from a ceiling led Galileo to
search into the laws of oscillation of the pendulum;
and by the fall of an apple the great Newton
was led to unfold what had hitherto been
deemed one of the secrets of the Deity&mdash;a mystery
over which God had thrown a vail, which it
would be presumption for man to lift or dare to
pry beneath. Had Newton disregarded little
things, and failed to profit by gentle hints, we
should perhaps have thought so still, and our
minds would not have been so filled with the glory
of Him who made the heavens; but with these
great truths revealed to our understandings, we
exclaim from our hearts, <q>Manifold, O God! are
thy works; in wisdom hast thou made them all.</q>
</p>

<p>
When the heart of the woolspinner of Genoa
was sickening with <q>hope deferred,</q> and his
men, who had long been straining their eyes in
vain to catch a glimpse of land, were about to
burst into open mutiny, and were shouting fearfully
to their leader to steer the vessel back again,
Columbus picked up a piece of wood which he
found floating upon the waters. The shore must
be nigh, he thought, from whence this branch has
wafted, and the inference inspired the fainting
hearts of his crew to persevere and gain the
hoped-for land; had it not been for this trifling
occurrence, Columbus would perhaps have returned
to Spain an unsuccessful adventurer. But
such trifles have often befriended genius. Accidentally
observing a red-hot iron become elongated
<pb n='332'/><anchor id='Pg332'/>
by passing between iron cylinders, suggested
the improvements effected by Arkwright
in the spinning machinery. A piece of thread
and a few small beads were means sufficient in
the hands of Ferguson, to ascertain the situation
of the stars in the heavens. The discovery of
Galvani was made by a trifling occurrence; a
knife happened to be brought in contact with a
dead frog which was lying upon the board of the
chemist's laboratory, the muscles of the reptile
were observed to be severely convulsed&mdash;experiments
soon unfolded the whole theory of Galvanism.
The history of the gas-light is curious, and
illustrates our subject. Dr. Clayton distilled
some coal in a retort, and confining the vapor in
a bladder, amused his friends by burning it as it
issued from a pin-hole; little did the worthy doctor
think to what purposes the principle of that
experiment was capable of being applied. It
was left for Murdoch to suggest its adoption as a
means of illuminating our streets and adding to
the splendor of our shops. Had Clayton not
made known his humble experiment, we probably
should still be depending on the mercy of a jovial
watchman for a light to guide us through the
dark thoroughfares of the city, or to the dim
glimmer of an oil lamp to display the luxury of
our merchandise.
</p>

<p>
These facts, which we have gleaned from the
fields of nature and from the annals of science,
may be useful to us all. If God has instilled the
instinct of frugality into the ant, and told us, in
his written word, to go learn her ways and be
wise, think you he will be displeased to observe
the same habits of economy in us, or deny us the
favor of his countenance, because we use with
care the talents he has intrusted to our keeping,
or the wealth he has placed within our reach?
Let not instances of the abuse of this feeling,
which spendthrifts in derision will be sure to
point out to you, deter you from saving, in times
of plenty, a little for a time of need. Avarice is
always despicable&mdash;the crime of the miser is
greater than that of the spendthrift; both are
extremes, both abuse the legitimate purposes of
wealth. It is equally revolting to read of two
avaricious souls, whose coffers could have disgorged
ten times ten thousand guineas, growing
angry over a penny, or fretting at the loss of a farthing
rushlight; but it is a sight quite as sad and
painful to observe the spendthrift squandering
in the mire the last shilling of an ample fortune,
and reducing his wife and children to beggary for
ever. Save, then, a little, although the thoughtless
and the gay may sneer. Throw nothing
away, for there is nothing that is purely worthless;
the refuse from your table is worth its
price, and if you are not wanting it yourself, remember
there are hundreds of your kind, your
brethren by the laws of God, who are groaning
under a poverty which it would help to mitigate,
and pale with a hunger which it might help to
satisfy. Where can you find your prescriptive
right to squander that which would fill the belly
of a hungry brother? A gentleman, some years
ago, married the daughter of a public contractor,
whose carts carried away the dust from our habitations;
he was promised a portion with his
bride, and on his nuptial day was referred to a
large heap of dust and offal as the promised dowry.
He little thought, as he received it with some
reluctance, that it would put two thousand pounds
into his pocket.
</p>

<p>
To achieve independence, then, you must practise
an habitual frugality, and while enjoying the
present, look forward to old age, and think now
and then of the possibility of a rainy day. Do
not fancy, because you can only save an occasional
penny now, that you will never become
the possessor of pounds. Small things increase
by union. Recollect, too, the precepts and life
of Franklin, and a thousand others who rose to
wealth and honor by looking after little things:
be resolute, persevere, and prosper. Do not wait
for the assistance of others in your progress
through life; you will grow hungry, depend upon
it, if you look to the charity or kindness of friends
for your daily bread. It is far more noble to gird
up your loins, and meet the difficulties and troubles
of human life with a dauntless courage. The
wheel of fortune turns as swiftly as that of a
mill, and the rich friend who has the power, you
think, to help you to-day, may become poor tomorrow&mdash;many
such instances of the mutability
of fortune must occur to every reader. If he be
rich, let him take the inference to himself. If
he has plenty, let him save a little, lest the wheel
should turn against him; and if he be poor and
penniless, let him draw from such cases consolation
and hope.
</p>

<p>
You are desirous of promotion in your worldly
position&mdash;you are ambitious of rising from indigence
to affluence?&mdash;resist, then, every temptation
that may allure you to indolence or every
fascination that may lead to prodigality. Think
not that the path to wealth or knowledge is all
sunshine and honey; look for it only by long
years of vigorous and well-directed activity; let
no opportunity pass for self-improvement. Keep
your mind a total stranger to the <foreign rend='italic'>ennui</foreign> of the
slothful. The dove, recollect, did not return to
Noah with the olive-branch till the second time
of her going forth; why, then, should you despond
at the failure of a first attempt? Persevere,
and above all, despise not little things; for,
you see, they sometimes lead to great matters in
the end.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Sublime Porte.</head>

<p>
In offering a few remarks upon the government
of Turkey, which, by common accord, is
known in Europe and the United States as <q>The
Sublime Porte,</q> it is not intended to quote history,
but rather to speak of it only in reference
to the present period. It is nevertheless necessary
to state that the Turks themselves call the
Turkish Empire <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Mémâliki-Othmanieh</foreign>, or the
<q>Ottoman States</q> (kingdoms), in consequence
of their having been founded by Othman, the
great ancestor of the present reigning sovereign,
Abd-ul-Mejid. They are no better pleased with
the name of <emph>Turk</emph> than the people of the United
<pb n='333'/><anchor id='Pg333'/>
States are, generally, with that of <emph>Yankee</emph>: it bears
with it a meaning signifying a gross and rude
man&mdash;something indeed very much like our own
definition of it, when we say any one is <q>no better
than a Turk;</q> and they greatly prefer being
known as Ottomans. They call their language
the <q>Ottoman tongue</q>&mdash;<foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Othmanli
dilee</foreign>&mdash;though
some do speak of it as the <emph>Turkish</emph>.
</p>

<p>
As regards the title, <q>The Sublime Porte,</q>
this has a different origin. In the earlier days
of Ottoman rule, the reigning sovereign, as is still
the case in some parts of the East, held courts
of justice and levees at the entrance of his residence.
The palace of the Sultan is always surrounded
by a high wall, and not unfrequently defended
by lofty towers and bastions. The chief
entrance is an elevated portal, with some pretensions
to magnificence and showy architecture.
It is guarded by soldiers or door-keepers well
armed; it may also contain some apartments for
certain officers, or even for the Sultan himself;
its covering or roof, projecting beyond the walls,
offers an agreeable shade, and in its external
alcoves are sofas more or less rich or gaudy.
Numerous loiterers are usually found lingering
about the portal, applicants for justice; and
there, in former times, when the Ottomans were
indeed <emph>Turks</emph>, scenes of injustice and cruelty
were not unfrequently witnessed by the passer-by.
</p>

<p>
This lofty portal generally bears a distinct
title. At Constantinople it has even grown into
one which has given a name to the whole government
of the Sultan. I am not aware, however,
that the custom here alluded to was ever in force
in that capital, though it certainly was in other
parts of the empire of Othman. It is not improbable
that it was usual with all the Sultans,
who, at the head of their armies, seldom had any
permanent fixed residence worthy of the name of
<emph>palace</emph>. Mahomet the Second, who conquered
Constantinople from the degenerate Greeks, may,
for some time after his entrance into the city of
Constantine&mdash;still called in all the official documents,
such as <q><foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Firmans</foreign>,</q> or <q>Royal Orders,</q>
<foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Kostantinieh</foreign>&mdash;have held his courts of
justice and transacted business at the elevated portal of his
temporary residence. The term <q>Sublime Porte,</q>
in Turkish, is <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Deri Alieh</foreign>, or the elevated and
lofty door; the Saxon word door being derived
from the Persian <foreign rend='italic'>der</foreign>, or
<foreign rend='italic'>dor</foreign>, in common use in
the Ottoman language, which is a strange mixture
of Tartar, Persian, and Arabic. The French,
or rather the Franks, in their earlier intercourse
with Turkey, translated the title literally <q>La
Sublime Porte,</q> and this in English has been
called, with similar inaccuracy, <q>The Sublime
Porte.</q>
</p>

<p>
Long since, the Ottoman Sultans have ceased
administering justice before their palaces, or indeed
any where else, in person. The office is
delegated to a deputy, who presides over the
whole Ottoman government, with the title of
Grand Vezir, or in Turkish, <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Véziri Azam</foreign>, the
Chief Vezir, whose official residence or place of
business, once no doubt at the portal of his
sovereign, is now in a splendid edifice in the
midst of the capital. At Constantinople the
Ottoman government is also called the <q>Sublime
Government,</q> <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Devleti Alieh</foreign>, a word closely
bordering on that of superiority and pre-eminence
claimed by the <q>Heavenly Government</q> of the
empire of China. The Sultan, in speaking of
his government, calls it <q>My Sublime Porte.</q>
The Grand Vezir being an officer of the highest
rank in the empire&mdash;a Pacha, of course, in fine,
<emph>the</emph> Pacha&mdash;his official residence is known in
Constantinople as that of the Pacha, <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Pacha Ka
pousee</foreign>, <hi rend='italic'>i.e.</hi> the <q>Gate of the Pacha.</q> The chief
entrance to the <q>seraglio</q> of the former Sultans,
erected on the tongue of land where once stood
the republican city of Byzantium, called the
<q>Imperial Gate,</q> or the <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Babi Humayoon</foreign>,
is supposed by some to have given rise to the title of
<q>The Sublime Porte;</q> but this is not correct.
It may have once been used as a court of justice,
certainly as a place where justice was wont to
be executed, for not unfrequently criminals were
decapitated there; and among others, the head
of the brave but unfortunate Aâli Pacha, of
Yanina in Albania, the friend of Lord Byron,
was exposed there for some days previous to its
interment beyond the walls of the city.
</p>

<p>
The title of <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>porte</foreign>,
or door, is used in Constantinople
to designate other departments of the
government. The bureau of the Minister of War
is called the <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Seraskier Kapousee</foreign>, or the Gate
of the <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Serasker</foreign> (head of the army); and those
of the Ministers of Commerce and Police are called,
the one <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Tijaret Kapousee</foreign>, and the other
<foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Zabtieh
Kapousee</foreign>. These, however are sufficient, without
mentioning any other facts, to explain the
origin and nature of the title of the Ottoman
government, known as <q>The Sublime Porte.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Sultan of the Ottoman Empire is known
by his subjects under the title of <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Sultân</foreign>,
which word signifies a ruler; and generally as <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Shevketlu
Padischah Effendimiz</foreign>, <q>His Majesty the Emperor
our Lord;</q> and all foreign governments now
recognize him as an Emperor, and call him by
the title of <q>Imperial Majesty.</q> The definition
of the word <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Padischah</foreign>
is supposed to be <q>Father of Kings,</q>
and originally was <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Peder Schah</foreign>, the
first part of it (Peder) being the origin of our
Saxon word <foreign rend='italic'>Fâder</foreign>, or father. In his own tongue
he is called <foreign rend='italic'>Khan</foreign>, in Persian
<foreign rend='italic'>Shah</foreign>, and in Arabic
<foreign lang='ar' rend='italic'>Sultan</foreign>, all meaning,
<foreign rend='italic'>in extensu</foreign>, the same, viz.
King, Sovereign, or Prince. He reigns over one
of the most extensive empires of the world, all
possessed or acquired by inheritance from his
ancestors, who obtained it by conquest.
</p>

<p>
Until the reign of the late Sultan, Mahmoud
the Second, the Ottoman sovereigns had their
residence in <emph>the</emph> <q>Seraglio</q> before alluded to, in
the city of Constantinople. Its high walls were
not, however, sufficiently strong to protect them
against the violence of the Janizaries, and after
their destruction the remembrance of the scenes
of their cruelty induced the late and present Sultan
to forsake it for the safer and more agreeable
banks of the Bosphorus. The extensive and very
picturesque buildings of the Seraglio are now
left to decay; they offer only the spectacle of
<pb n='334'/><anchor id='Pg334'/>
the <q>dark ages</q> of Turkey, gloomy in their aspect,
as in their history, and yet occupying one
of the most favored spots in the world, on which
the eyes of the traveler are fixed as by a charm
in approaching the great capital of the East, and
on which they dwell with a parting feeling of
regret as he bids the magnificent <q>City of the
Sultan</q> farewell.
</p>

<p>
On the Bosphorus are two splendid palaces,
one on the Asiatic and the other on the European
shore. The first is called <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Beylerbey</foreign>,
<q>Prince of Princes,</q> the latter
<foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Teherâgiân</foreign>,
<q>The Lights.</q>
Both are beautiful edifices, in excellent taste;
and, as architecture has done in all ages, they
serve to show the advance of the people who
erected them in the noblest of the arts.
</p>

<p>
The Turkish Sultan, in theory, is a despotic
sovereign, while in practice he is a very paternal
one. As the supreme head of the government,
he may exercise unlimited power; few checks
exist to preserve the lives and property of his
subjects against an influence which he <emph>might</emph>
exercise over them. His ancestors conquered
the country, and subjugated its inhabitants to
<emph>his</emph> rule with <emph>his</emph> troops; consequently it all belonged
to him, and could only be possessed by
<emph>his</emph> gift: thus, in fact, the empire is his, and the
concessions made by him to his subjects are free-will
offerings, which are not drawn from him by
compulsion on their part, but are grants on his,
in behalf of reform and civilization. The feudal
system of land-tenure was abolished by his father,
and there is now scarcely a feature of it remaining.
It is several years since the present Sultan
spontaneously renounced all the arbitrary power
hitherto possessed and frequently exercised by
his predecessors; at the same time he granted
all his subjects a <q>Charter of Rights,</q> called
the <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Hatti Sherif of Gulkhaneh</foreign>, or imperial
sacred rescript of <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Gulkhaneh</foreign>, named after a
summerhouse or <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>Kiosckk</foreign> within the precincts of
the Seraglio, where it was read before him by the
present Grand Vezir, Rechid Pacha, in the presence
of the whole diplomatic corps, and all the
ministers and other high officers of the Ottoman
government. In this charter the Sultan conceded
all the rights and privileges which could be expected
from a sovereign prince not reigning with
a constitutional form of government. He has
never withdrawn any of these privileges, or resumed
the power which he then renounced.
Moreover, this charter limited the power of all
his officers. The only punishments which they
can now exercise are fines and imprisonments of
limited extent. None can any longer inflict the
<q>bastinado,</q> nor capital punishment for crimes
of a graver nature; these are reserved for the
Councils or Boards at the capital and the chief
towns of each province. The sentences of the
latter are, in all cases, subject to the confirmation
of the former, and the decrees of the Council of
State, held at the Sublime Porte, are laid before
the Sultan previous to their adoption as laws.
</p>

<p>
The present Sultan, Abd-ul-Mejid, which name
is Arabic, and signifies <q>Servant of the Glorious</q>
(God), is now in his twenty-ninth year:
he succeeded his late illustrious father, Mahmoud
II., in 1839, when he was but seventeen
years of age. His father had inspired him with
the desire to improve his empire and promote
the welfare of his people by salutary reforms,
and frequently carried him with him to observe
the result of the new system which he had introduced
into the different branches of the public
service. Previous to his accession to the throne,
but little is known of his life, or the way in which
he was brought up. It may be supposed to have
been much like that of all Oriental princes. Except
when he attended his parent, he seldom left
the palace. He had several sisters and one
brother, all by other mothers than his own. The
former have, since his accession, died, with the
exception of one, the wife of the present Minister
of War. His brother still lives, and resides
with the Sultan in his palace. The mother of
the Sultan, who was a Circassian slave of his
father, is said to be a woman of a strong mind
and an excellent judgment. She exercised much
influence over her son when he ascended the
throne, and her counsels were greatly to his benefit.
He entertains for her feelings of the deepest
respect, and has always evinced the warmest
concern for her health and happiness. She is a
large, portly lady, yet in the prime of life; and
although she possesses a fine palace of her own,
near to that of her son, she mostly resides with
him. Her revenues are derived from the islands
of Chio and Samos.
</p>

<p>
In person the Sultan is of middle stature,
slender, and of a delicate frame. In his youth
he suffered from illness, and it was thought that
his constitution had been severely affected by it.
His features are slightly marked with the small
pox. His countenance denotes great benevolence
and goodness of heart, and the frankness and
earnestness of character which are its chief traits.
He does not possess the dignified and commanding
figure which eminently characterized his
father, and in conduct is simple and diffident.
His address, when unrestrained by official forms
and ceremony, is gentle and kind in the extreme&mdash;more
affable and engaging than that of his
Pachas; and no one can approach him without
being won by the goodness of heart which his
demeanor indicates. He has never been known
to commit an act of severity or injustice; his
purse and his hand have always been open for
the indigent and the unfortunate, and he takes a
peculiar pride in bestowing his honors upon men
of science and talent. Among his own subjects
he is very popular and much beloved; they perceive
and acknowledge the benefit of the reforms
which he has instituted, and he no longer need
apprehend any opposition on their part. In some
of the more distant portions of his empire, such
as Albania, where perhaps foreign influence is
exerted to thwart his plans, his new system of
military rule has not yet been carried out; but
it evidently soon will be, especially when its
advantage over the old is felt by the inhabitants.
</p>

<p>
The palaces of the Sultan, on both banks of
the Bosphorus, though externally showy, are
<pb n='335'/><anchor id='Pg335'/>
very plain and simple in their interior arrangement.
They are surrounded by high walls, and
guarded by soldiery. The first block of buildings
which the traveler approaches on visiting them,
up the Bosphorus, are the apartments of the
eunuchs; the second his <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>harem</foreign>, or female
apartments; and the third those of the Sultan. Beyond
this are the offices of his secretaries, guard,
and band of music, all beyond the walls of the
palace. The number of eunuchs is some sixty
or eighty, and the females in the harem about
300 to 400. The Sultan never marries; all the
occupants of his harem are slaves, and he generally
selects from four to six ladies as his favorites,
who bear children to him, and who succeed
to his throne. The remainder of the females are
employed as maids of honor, who attend upon
his mother, his favorites, his brother's mother,
favorite, if he has one, and upon his children.
Many hold offices in the palace, and are charged
with the maintenance of good order and regularity.
Many of them are aged females, who have
been servants to his father, his mother, and sisters,
and brother, and have thus claims upon his
kindness and protection. The only males who
have the right of entrance to the imperial harem
are the eunuchs, all of whom are black, and come
mutilated from Egypt. The chief of their corps
is an aged <q>gentleman of color,</q> possessing the
Sultan's confidence in an eminent degree, and
in official rank is higher than any other individual
connected with the imperial palace. The
eunuchs are assigned to the service of the different
ladies of the harem, do their shopping in
the bazaars, carry their messages, and accompany
them on their visits. Indeed, their duties
are much like those of well-bred gallants in our
country, without any of the ambitious feelings
which animate the latter, and certainly they never
aspire to the possession of their affections. Some
of them grow wealthy, possess much property,
and slaves of both sexes, but as they can have
no families, the Sultan is their legal heir. Eunuchs
are possessed by many of the pachas and
other officers of rank, for the purpose of serving
their wives, sisters, and daughters: they cost
four or five times as much as an ordinary black
slave, and the highest officers seldom possess
more than ten of them at once. From them
much interesting information can at times be
procured relative to the most sacred and least
known of the Mussulman family system. They
are generally of mild disposition, gentle and amiable;
though this is not always the case, for they
sometimes are petulant, cross, and confoundedly
non-communicative.
</p>

<p>
The Sultan's palace is peculiarly his private
home, and no officers of high rank occupy it with
him. He has four private secretaries and as
many chamberlains. He has also two aids-de-camp,
who are generally in command of the
body-guard, which has its quarters in the vicinity
of the palace. He seldom, however, commands
their attendance; their duties are to keep watch
at the principal entrances, and to salute him or
any other higher officers who may arrive at or
leave the royal residence. The secretaries write
out his orders, and the chief of their number receives
all foreign functionaries or Turkish dignitaries
who visit the palace on business. One of
them is the Sultan's interpreter, and translates
articles for his perusal from the many foreign
papers received from Europe and America by the
Sultan. All official documents are sent to the
chief secretary by the different ministers of the
Sublime Porte, and those received from the foreign
embassies and legations are translated there,
previous to being transmitted to the Sultan. No
foreign legation ever transacts any official business
directly with the Sultan, or through the
chief (private) secretary; but the latter may be
visited on matters relating to the sovereign personally.
Documents from the Sublime Porte
are always communicated through the Grand
Vezir, who has a number of portfolios in which
these are placed, and he sends them to the palace
by certain functionaries charged especially with
their conveyance. Of these the Vezir possesses
one key, and the Sultan, or his chief secretary,
another. The sultan passes several hours of the
day, from eleven till three, in perusing these papers,
and in hearing their perusal by the private
secretary before him; and his imperial commands
are traced on their broad margin, either
by his own hand in red ink (as is customary in
China), or he directs his secretary to do it for
him. So very sacred are all manuscripts coming
from his pen, that these papers seldom ever leave
the bureaux to which they belong, except after
his decease. It is only on such documents that
the autograph of the Sultan is ever seen.
</p>

<p>
At about three o'clock the Sultan generally
leaves the palace in a <foreign rend='italic'>caïque</foreign> or barge, which,
being smaller than that used for official purposes,
is called the <foreign rend='italic'>incognito</foreign>
(<foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>tebdil</foreign>), and visits the edifices
that he may be erecting, calls upon his sisters,
or spends the remainder of the day at one
of the many delightful nooks on the Bosphorus
or Golden Horn, where he possesses <foreign lang='tr' rend='italic'>kiosks</foreign>, or
summer-houses. Sometimes he takes with him
his brother or his sons; and he is strongly attached
to them. It is said that he is having the
latter instructed in the French language, in geography
and mathematics. The elder is some ten
years of age, but will not succeed his father to
the throne until after the death of his uncle, who,
by Mussulman law, is next in right to the reigning
Sultan. Inheritance, in Islam lands, runs
through all the brothers before it reverts to the
children of the eldest son. Females can not
succeed to the throne, and the house of Othman
would consequently become extinct with its last
male representative.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Curse Of Gold. A Dream.</head>

<p>
Mordant Lindsay threw off the long
black crape scarf and hat-band which, in the
character of chief mourner, he had that day worn
at the funeral of his wife, as he entered one of
the apartments at Langford, and moodily sought a
seat. The room was spacious, and filled with
<pb n='336'/><anchor id='Pg336'/>
every luxury which wealth could procure or ingenuity
invent to add to its comfort or its ornament.
Pictures, mirrors, silken curtains, and
warm carpets; statues in marble and bronze
were scattered about in rich profusion in the
saloon, and its owner, in the deep mourning of
a widower, sat there&mdash;grieving truly&mdash;thinking
deeply; but not, as might have been supposed,
of the lady who had that day been laid in the
vault of his ancestors&mdash;no, he was regretting the
loss of a much brighter spirit than ever lived in
her pale proud face, or in the coldness of her calm
blue eye. Mordant Lindsay was apparently a
man of past fifty; his hair was streaked with
gray, though its dark locks still curled thickly
round his head; he bore on his face the marks
of more than common beauty, but time had left
its traces there, in the furrows on his brow; and
even more deeply than time, care. As a young
man, he had been very handsome, richly endowed
by nature with all those graces which too
often make captive only to kill; but fortune, less
generous, had gifted him but with the heritage
of a good name&mdash;nothing more&mdash;and his early
life had been passed in an attempt, by his own
means, to remedy the slight she had put upon
him at his birth. The object of his ambition was
gained&mdash;had been now for some years: he was
wealthy, the possessor of all the fair lands stretched
out before him as far as his eye could reach,
and a rent-roll not unworthy of one in a higher
station in life. Looked up to by the poor of
Langford as the lord of the manor, courted by
his equals as a man of some consequence. Was
he happy? See the lines so deeply marked on
his countenance, and listen to the sigh which
seems to break from the bottom of his heart.
You will find in them an answer.
</p>

<p>
How brightly the sun shines in through the
windows of the room, gilding all around with its
own radiance, and giving life and light to the
very statues! It shines even on his head, but
fails in warming his bosom; it annoys him, uncongenial
as it is with his sad thoughts, and he
rises and pulls down the blind, and then restlessly
wanders forth into the open air. The day is
close, for summer is still at its height, and Mordant
Lindsay seeks the shade of a group of trees
and lies down, and presently he sleeps, and the
sun (as it declines) throws its shadows on nearer
objects; and now it rests on him, and as it hovers
there, takes the form of that companion of his
childhood, who for long, with a pertinacity he
could not account for, seemed ever avoiding his
path, and flying from him when most anxiously
pursued; and he sees again those scenes of his
past life before him dimly pictured through the
vista of many years, and his dream runs thus:
</p>

<p>
He is a child at play, young and innocent, as
yet untainted by worldly ambition, and standing
by him is a beautiful figure, with long golden
hair, very bright, and shining like spun glass or
the rays of the summer sun. Her eyes seem
born for laughter, so clear, so mirthful, so full of
joy, and her spotless robe flows around her,
making every thing it comes in contact with graceful
as itself; and she has wings, for Happiness
is fickle and flies away, so soon as man proves
false to himself and unworthy of her. She joins
the child in his gambols, and hand in hand with
him sports beside him, gathering the same flowers
that he gathers, looking through his smiling
eyes as she echoes his happy laughter; and then
over meadow, past ditches, and through tangled
bushes, in full chase after a butterfly. In the
eagerness of the sport he falls, and the gaudy
insect (all unconscious of being the originator of
so many conflicting hopes and fears) flutters
onward in full enjoyment of the sun and the
light, and soon it is too far off to renew the chase.
Tears, like dewdrops, fill the child's eyes, and he
looks around in vain for his companion of the
day. The grass is not so green without her;
even the bird's song is discordant, and, tired, he
sadly wends his way toward home. <q>Oh, dear
mamma!</q> he exclaims, brightening up, as he
sees his mother coming toward him, and running
to her finds a ready sympathy in his disappointment
as she clasps her boy to her bosom and
dries his little tearful face, closely pressing him
to a heart whose best hopes are centred in his
well-being. Happiness is in her arms, and he
feels her warm breath upon his cheek as she
kisses and fondles him; and anon he is as cheerful
as he was, for his playmate of the day, now
returned with his own good-humor, accompanies
him for all the hours he will encourage her to
remain; sometimes hiding within the purple
flower of the scented violet, or nodding from beneath
the yellow cups of the cowslip, as the
breeze sends her laden with perfume back to him
again. And in such childish play and innocent
enjoyment time rolls on, until the child has reached
his ninth year, and becomes the subject and
lawful slave of all the rules in Murray's Grammar,
and those who instill them into the youthful mind.
And then the boy finds his early friend (although
ready at all times to share his hours of relaxation)
very shy and distant; when studies are difficult
or lessons long, keeping away until the task is
accomplished; but cricket and bat and ball invariably
summon her, and then she is bright and
kind as of yore, content to forget old quarrels in
present enjoyment; and as Mordant dreamed, he
sighed in his sleep, and the shadow of Happiness
went still further off, as if frightened by his
grief.
</p>

<p>
The picture changes: and now more than
twenty years are past since the time when the
boy first saw the light, and he is sitting in the
room of a little cottage. The glass door leading
to the garden is open, and the flowers come clustering
in at the windows. The loveliness of the
child has flown, it is true, but in its place a fond
mother gazes on the form of a son whose every
feature is calculated to inspire love. The short
dark curls are parted from off his sunburnt forehead,
and the bright hazel eyes (in which merriment
predominates) glance quickly toward the
door, as if expecting some one. The book he has
been pretending to read lies idly on his lap, and
bending his head upon his hand, his eyes had
<pb n='337'/><anchor id='Pg337'/>
shut in the earnestness of his reverie, he does not
hear the light footstep which presently comes
stealing softly behind him. The new-comer is a
young and very pretty girl, with a pale Madonna-looking
face, seriously thoughtful beyond her
years. She may be seventeen or eighteen, not
more. Her hands have been busy with the flowers
in the garden, and now, as she comes up behind
the youth, she plucks the leaves from off a
rose-bud, and drops them on his open book. A
slight start, and a look upward, and then (his
arms around her slight form) he kisses her fondly
and often. And Happiness clings about them,
and nestles closely by their side, as if jealous of
being separated from either, and they were happy
in their young love. How happy! caring for
naught besides, thinking of no future, but in each
other&mdash;taking no account of time so long as they
should be together, contented to receive the evils
of life with the good, and to suffer side by side
(if God willed it) sooner than be parted. They
were engaged to be married. At present, neither
possessed sufficient to live comfortably upon,
and they must wait and hope; and she did hope,
and was reconciled almost to his departure, which
must soon take place, for he has been studying
for a barrister, and will leave his mother's house
to find a solitary home in a bachelor's chambers
in London. Mordant saw himself (as he had been
then) sitting with his first love in that old familiar
place, her hand clasped in his, her fair hair
falling around her, and vailing the face she hid
upon his shoulder, and even more vividly still, the
remembrance of that Happiness which had ever
been attendant on them then, when the most trivial
incidents of the day were turned into matters
of importance, colored and embellished as they
were by love. He saw himself in possession of
the reality, which, alas! he had thrown away
for the shadow of it, and he longed for the recovery
of those past years which had been so unprofitably
spent, in a vain attempt at regaining it.
The girl still sat by him; they did not seem to
speak, and throughout that long summer afternoon
still they sat, she pulling the flowers (so
lately gathered) in pieces, and he playing with
the ringlets of her hair. And now the door opens,
and his mother enters, older by many years than
when she last appeared to him, but still the same
kind smile and earnest look of affection as she
turns toward her son. Her hand is laid upon his
arm (as he rises to meet her), and her soft voice
utters his name, coupled with endearment. <q>Mordant,
dearest, Edith and myself wish to walk, if
you will accompany us?</q> <q>Certainly,</q> is the
reply, and the three set out, and the dreamer
watched their fast receding forms down a shady
lane, until a turn lost them to his sight, and the
retrospective view had vanished, but quickly to
be replaced by another.
</p>

<p>
Again he sees the same youth, this time impatiently
walking up and down a close, dismal
room. The furniture is smoke-dried and dusty,
once red, now of a dark ambiguous color. The
sofa is of horse-hair, shining (almost white in
places) from constant friction. On the mantlepiece
hangs a looking-glass, the frame wrapped
round with yellow gauze to protect it from dirt
and here and there a fly-catcher, suspended from
the ceiling, annoys the inmate of the dusky room
by its constant motion. It is a lodging-house,
ready furnished, and the young man, who has
not left his home many months, is not yet accustomed
to the change, and he is wearied and unhappy.
He has just been writing to Edith, and
the thought of her causes him uneasiness; he is
longing to be with her again. Restlessly he
paces up and down the narrow chamber, unwilling
to resume studies, by the mastery of which he
could alone hope to be with her again, until a
knock at the hall-door makes him pause and sit
down; another knock (as if the visitor did not
care to be kept waiting). Mordant knew what
was coming; he remembered it all, and felt no
surprise at seeing in his dream a friend (now
long since dead) enter the apartment, with the
exclamation of <q>What, Lindsay! all alone? I
had expected to find you out, I was kept so long
knocking at your door. How are you, old fellow?</q>
and Charles Vernon threw himself into a
chair. <q>We are all going to the play,</q> continued
he, <q>and a supper afterward. You know
Leclerque? he will be one of the party&mdash;will you
come?</q> and Vernon waited for an answer. The
one addressed replied in the affirmative, and Mordant
saw (with a shudder) the same figure which
had lured him on in Pleasure to seek lost Happiness,
now tempting the youth before him. The
two were so like each other in outward appearance,
that he wondered not that he too was deceived,
and followed her with even more eagerness
than he had ever done her more retiring sister.
And then with that gay creature ever in
mind, Mordant saw the young man led on from
one place of amusement to another&mdash;from supper
and wine to dice and a gambling-table&mdash;until
ruin stared him in the face, and that mind, which
had once been pure and untarnished, was fast becoming
defaced by a too close connection with
vice.
</p>

<p>
Mordant was wiser now, and he saw how
flimsy and unreal this figure of Pleasure appeared&mdash;how
her gold was tinsel, and her laughter but
the hollow echo of a forced merriment&mdash;unlike his
own once possessed Happiness, whose treasures
were those of a contented spirit&mdash;whose gayety
proceeded from an innocent heart and untroubled
conscience. Strange that he should have been
so blinded to her beauties, and so unmindful of
the other's defects; but so it had been. Mordant
sympathized with the young man as he watched
him running headlong toward his own misery;
but the scene continued before him&mdash;he had no
power to prevent it&mdash;and now the last stake is to
be played. On that throw of the dice rests the
ruin of the small property he has inherited from
his father. It is lost! and he beggared of the
little he could call his own; and forth from the
hell (in which he has been passing the night)
rushes into the street. It wants but one stroke
to complete the wreck of heart as well as of fortune,
and that stroke is not long in coming.
</p>

<pb n='338'/><anchor id='Pg338'/>

<p>
Miserable, he returned to his lodgings, and alone
he thought of his position. He thought of Edith.
<q>Love in a cottage, even could I by my own
means regain what I have lost. Pshaw! the
thing is ridiculous. Without money there can
not be Happiness for her or for me.</q> A few
months had sadly changed <emph>him</emph>, who before saw
it only in her society. But now the Goddess of
his fancy stands before him&mdash;her golden curls of
the precious metal he covets&mdash;her eyes receiving
their brightness from its lustre, and in his heart
a new feeling asserts superiority, and he wishes
to be rich. With money to meet every want he
will command her presence&mdash;not sue for it; and
Mordant remembered how, in pursuance of this
ambition, gradually cooling toward her, he had at
last broken off his engagement with Edith&mdash;how
for some years, day and night had seen him toiling
at his profession, ever with the same object
in view, and how at last he had married a woman
in every way what he desired: rich in gold and
lands and worldly possessions, but poor in heart
compared with Edith.
</p>

<p>
The crowd jostle each other to get a nearer
view of the bride as she passes (leaning on her
father's arm) from the carriage to the church-door.
The bridegroom is waiting for her, and
now joins her, and they kneel side by side at the
altar. Mordant remembers his wedding-day. He
is not happy, notwithstanding the feeling of gratified
pride he experiences as he places the ring
upon the fair hand of the Lady Blanche. No
emotion of a very deep kind tinges her cheek;
she is calm and cold throughout the ceremony.
She admires Mordant Lindsay very much; he
was of a good family, so was she; he very handsome
and young, and she past thirty. Matches
more incongruous have been made, and with
less apparent reason, and this needs no farther
explanation on her side. They are married
now, and about to leave the church. The young
man turns as he passes out (amidst the congratulations
of his friends), attracted by scarcely suppressed
sobs; but the cloaked figure from whom
they proceed does not move, and he recognizes
her not. It is Edith, and Mordant, as he gazes
on the scene before him, sees Happiness standing
afar off, afraid to approach too near to any
one of the party, but still keeping her eyes fixed
on the pale young mourner at that bridal, who,
bowed down with grief, sat there until the clock
warned her to go, as the doors were being closed.
The married pair (after a month spent abroad)
settles down at Langford; and the husband&mdash;was
he happy now? No, not yet&mdash;but expecting
to be from day to day, hoping that time would
alter for the better what was wanting to the
happiness of his home; but time flew on, and,
regardless of his hopes, left him the same disappointed
man that it found him&mdash;disappointed in
his wife, in his expectations of children&mdash;feeling
a void in his heart which money was inefficient
to supply. The drama was drawing to a close;
Mordant felt that the present time had arrived.
His wife was dead, and he in possession of every
thing which had been hers, but still an anxious,
unsatisfied mind prevented all enjoyment of life;
but yet one more scene, and this time Mordant
was puzzled, for he did not recognize either the
place or the actors.
</p>

<p>
On a bed on one side was stretched the figure
of a young woman. Her features were so drawn
and sharpened by illness, that he could not recall
them to his mind, although he had an idea that
he ought to know her face. She was very pale,
and the heat seemed to oppress her, for in a languid
voice she begged the lady (who was sitting
by her side) to open the window. She rose to
do so, and then Mordant saw that the scenery
beyond was not English, for hedges of myrtle
and scarlet geranium grew around in profusion,
and the odor of orange flowers came thickly into
the chamber of the dying girl. Raising herself
with difficulty, she called to her companion, and
then she said,
</p>

<p>
<q>I know I shall not now get better; I feel I
am dying, and I am glad of it. My life has been
a living death to me for some years. When I am
dead I would wish to be buried in England&mdash;not
here&mdash;not in this place, which has proved a grave
to so many of my countrymen. Let me find my
last resting-place, dearest mother, at home, in
our own little church-yard.</q>
</p>

<p>
The lady wept as she promised her child to
fulfill her last request, and Mordant saw that
Happiness had flown from the bed (around which
she had been hovering for some minutes) straight
up to heaven, to await there the spirit of the
broken-hearted girl, who was breathing her last
under the clear and sunny sky of Madeira.
</p>

<p>
Mordant shuddered as he awoke, for he had
been asleep for some time, and the evening was
closing in as he rose from the damp grass. It
was to a lonely hearth that he returned, and during
the long night which followed, as he thought
of his dream and of an ill-spent life, he resolved
to revisit his early home, in the hope that amidst
old scenes he might bring back the days when he
was happy. Was Edith still alive? He knew
not. He had heard she had gone abroad; she
might be there still. He did not confess it to
himself, but it was Edith of whom he thought
most; and it was the hope of again seeing her
which induced him to take a long journey to the
place where he had been born. The bells were
ringing for some merry-making as Mordant Lindsay
left his traveling carriage, to walk up the
one street of which Bower's Gifford boasted. He
must go through the church-yard to gain the new
inn, and passing (by one of the inhabitants' directions)
through the turnstile, he soon found himself
amidst the memorials of its dead. Mordant,
as he pensively walked along, read the names of
those whose virtues were recorded on their grave-stones,
and as he read, reflected. And now he
stops, for it is a well-known name which attracts
his attention, and as he parts the weeds which
have grown high over that grave, he sees inscribed
on the broken pillar which marks the
spot, <q>Edith Graham, who died at Madeira, aged
21.</q> And Mordant, as he looks, sinks down upon
the grass, and sheds the first tears which for
<pb n='339'/><anchor id='Pg339'/>
years have been wept by him, and in sorrow of
heart, when too late, acknowledges that it is not
money or gratified ambition which brings Happiness
in this world, but a contented and cheerful
mind; and from that lonely grave he leaves
an altered man, and a better one.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Maurice Tiernay,
The Soldier Of Fortune.<note place='foot'>Concluded from the January Number.</note></head>

<div>
<head>Chapter LI. <q>Schönbrunn</q> In 1809.</head>

<p>
About two months afterward, on a warm
evening of summer, I entered Vienna in a litter,
along with some twelve hundred other wounded
men, escorted by a regiment of Cuirassiers. I
was weak and unable to walk. The fever of my
wound had reduced me to a skeleton; but I was
consoled for every thing by knowing that I was
a captain on the Emperor's own staff, and decorated
by himself with the Cross of <q>the Legion.</q>
Nor were these my only distinctions, for
my name had been included among the lists of
the <q>Officiers d'Elite;</q> a new institution of the
Emperor, enjoying considerable privileges and
increase of pay.
</p>

<p>
To this latter elevation, too, I owed my handsome
quarters in the <q>Raab</q> Palace at Vienna,
and the sentry at my door, like that of a field officer.
Fortune, indeed, began to smile upon me,
and never are her flatteries more welcome than
in the first hours of returning health, after a long
sickness. I was visited by the first men of the
army; marshals and generals figured among the
names of my intimates, and invitations flowed in
upon me from all that were distinguished by rank
and station.
</p>

<p>
Vienna, at that period, presented few features
of a city occupied by an enemy. The guards, it
is true, on all arsenals and forts, were French,
and the gates were held by them; but there was
no interruption to the course of trade and commerce.
The theatres were open every night, and
balls and receptions went on with only redoubled
frequency. Unlike his policy toward Russia,
Napoleon abstained from all that might humiliate
the Austrians. Every possible concession was
made to their national tastes and feelings, and officers
of all ranks in the French army were strictly
enjoined to observe a conduct of conciliation and
civility on every occasion of intercourse with the
citizens. Few general orders could be more palatable
to Frenchmen, and they set about the task
of cultivating the good esteem of the Viennese
with a most honest desire for success. Accident,
too, aided their efforts not a little; for it chanced
that a short time before the battle of Aspern, the
city had been garrisoned by Croat and Wallachian
regiments, whose officers, scarcely half
civilized, and with all the brutal ferocity of barbarian
tribes, were most favorably supplanted by
Frenchmen, in the best of possible tempers with
themselves and the world.
</p>

<p>
It might be argued, that the Austrians would
have shown more patriotism in holding themselves
aloof, and avoiding all interchange of civilities
with their conquerors. Perhaps, too, this
line of conduct would have prevailed to a greater
extent, had not those in high places set an opposite
example. But so it was; and in the hope
of obtaining more favorable treatment in their
last extremity, the princes of the Imperial House,
and the highest nobles of the land, freely accepted
the invitations of our marshals, and as freely received
them at their own tables.
</p>

<p>
There was something of pride, too, in the way
these great families continued to keep up the
splendor of their households, large retinues of
servants and gorgeous equipages, when the very
empire itself was crumbling to pieces. And to
the costly expenditure of that fevered interval
may be dated the ruin of some of the richest of
the Austrian nobility. To maintain a corresponding
style, and to receive the proud guests
with suitable magnificence, enormous <q>allowances</q>
were made to the French generals; while
in striking contrast to all the splendor, the Emperor
Napoleon lived at Schönbrunn with a most
simple household and restricted retinue.
</p>

<p>
<q>Berthier's</q> Palace, in the <q>Graben,</q> was,
by its superior magnificence, the recognized centre
of French society; and thither flocked every
evening all that was most distinguished in rank
of both nations. Motives of policy, or at least
the terrible pressure of necessity, filled these salons
with the highest personages of the empire;
while as if accepting, as inevitable, the glorious
ascendency of Napoleon, many of the French
<foreign rend='italic'>emigré</foreign> families emerged from their retirement to
pay their court to the favored lieutenants of Napoleon.
Marmont, who was highly connected
with the French aristocracy, gave no slight aid
to this movement; and it was currently believed
at the time, was secretly intrusted by the Emperor
with the task of accomplishing, what in modern
phrase is styled a <q>fusion.</q>
</p>

<p>
The real source of all these flattering attentions
on the Austrian side, however, was the
well-founded dread of the partition of the empire;
a plan over which Napoleon was then hourly in
deliberation, and to the non-accomplishment of
which he ascribed, in the days of his last exile,
all the calamities of his fall. Be this as it may,
few thoughts of the graver interests at stake disturbed
the pleasure we felt in the luxurious life
of that delightful city; nor can I, through the
whole of a long and varied career, call to mind
any period of more unmixed enjoyment.
</p>

<p>
Fortune stood by me in every thing. Marshal
Marmont required as the head of his Etat-major
an officer who could speak and write German,
and if possible, who understood the Tyrol dialect.
I was selected for the appointment; but then
there arose a difficulty. The etiquette of the
service demanded that the chef d'Etat-major
should be at least a lieutenant-colonel, and I was
but a captain.
</p>

<p>
<q>No matter,</q> said he; <q>you are officier
d'élite, which always gives brevet rank, and so
one step more will place you where we want
you. Come with me to Schönbrunn to-night
and I'll try to arrange it.</q>
</p>

<pb n='340'/><anchor id='Pg340'/>

<p>
I was still very weak and unable for any fatigue,
as I accompanied the Marshal to the quaint
old palace which, at about a league from the
capital, formed the head-quarters of the Emperor.
Up to this time I had never been presented to
Napoleon, and had formed to myself the most
gorgeous notions of the state and splendor that
should surround such majesty. Guess then my
astonishment, and, need I own, disappointment,
as we drove up a straight avenue, very sparingly
lighted, and descended at a large door, where a
lieutenant's guard was stationed. It was customary
for the Marshals and Generals of Division
to present themselves each evening at Schönbrunn,
from six to nine o'clock, and we found that
eight or ten carriages were already in waiting when
we arrived. An officer of the household recognized
the Marshal as he alighted, and as we mounted
the stairs whispered a few words hurriedly in
his ear, of which I only caught one, <q>Komorn,</q>
the name of the Hungarian fortress on the Danube
where the Imperial family of Vienna and the
cabinet had sought refuge.
</p>

<p>
<q>Diantre!</q> exclaimed Marmont, <q>bad news!
My dear Tiernay, we have fallen on an unlucky
moment to ask a favor! The dispatches from
Komorn are, it would seem, unsatisfactory.
The Tyrol is far from quiet. Kuffstein, I think
that's the name, or some such place, is attacked
by a large force, and likely to fall into their hands
from assault.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That can scarcely be, sir,</q> said I, interrupting;
<q>I know Kuffstein well. I was two years
a prisoner there; and, except by famine, the
fortress is inaccessible.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What! are you certain of this?</q> cried he,
eagerly; <q>is there not one side on which escalade
is possible?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Quite impracticable on every quarter, believe
me, sir. A hundred men of the line and twenty
gunners might hold Kuffstein against the world.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You hear what he says, Lefebre,</q> said Marmont
to the officer; <q>I think I might venture to
bring him up?</q> The other shook his head
doubtfully, and said nothing. <q>Well, announce
<emph>me</emph> then,</q> said the Marshal; <q>and, Tiernay, do
you throw yourself on one of those sofas there
and wait for me.</q>
</p>

<p>
I did as I was bade, and, partly from the unusual
fatigue and in part from the warmth of a
summer evening, soon fell off into a heavy sleep.
I was suddenly awoke by a voice saying, <q>come
along, captain, be quick, your name has been
called twice!</q> I sprang up and looked about;
me, without the very vaguest notion of where I
was. <q>Where to? Where am I going?</q> asked
I, in my confusion. <q>Follow that gentleman,</q>
was the brief reply; and so I did in the same
dreamy state that a sleep-walker might have
done. Some confused impression that I was in
attendance on General Marmont was all that I
could collect, when I found myself standing in a
great room densely crowded with officers of rank.
Though gathered in groups and knots chatting,
there was, from time to time, a sort of movement
in the mass that seemed communicated by some
single impulse; and then all would remain watchful
and attentive for some seconds, their eyes
turned in the direction of a large door at the end
of the apartment. At last this was thrown suddenly
open, and a number of persons entered, at
whose appearance every tongue was hushed, and
the very slightest gesture subdued. The crowd
meanwhile fell back, forming a species of circle
round the room, in front of which this newly entered
group walked. I can not now remember
what struggling efforts I made to collect my faculties,
and think where I was then standing; but
if a thunderbolt had struck the ground before
me, it could not have given me a more terrific
shock than that I felt on seeing the Emperor
himself address the general officer beside me.
</p>

<p>
I can not pretend to have enjoyed many opportunities
of royal notice. At the time I speak
of, such distinction was altogether unknown to
me; but even when most highly favored in that
respect, I have never been able to divest myself
of a most crushing feeling of my inferiority&mdash;a
sense at once so humiliating and painful, that I
longed to be away and out of a presence where
I might dare to look at him who addressed me,
and venture on something beyond mere replies
to interrogatories. This situation, good reader,
with all your courtly breeding and aplomb to
boot, is never totally free of constraint; but imagine
what it can be when, instead of standing
in the faint sunshine of a royal smile, you find
yourself cowering under the stern and relentless
look of anger, and that anger an Emperor's.
</p>

<p>
This was precisely my predicament, for, in my
confusion, I had not noticed how, as the Emperor
drew near to any individual to converse, the others,
at either side, immediately retired out of
hearing, preserving an air of obedient attention,
but without in any way obtruding themselves on
the royal notice. The consequence was, that as
his Majesty stood to talk with Marshal Oudinot,
I maintained my place, never perceiving my
awkwardness till I saw that I made one of three
figures isolated in the floor of the chamber. To
say that I had rather have stood in face of an
enemy's battery, is no exaggeration. I'd have
walked up to a gun with a stouter heart than I
felt at this terrible moment; and yet there was
something in that sidelong glance of angry meaning
that actually nailed me to the spot, and I
could not have fallen back to save my life. There
were, I afterward learned, no end of signals and
telegraphic notices to me from the officers in
waiting. Gestures and indications for my guidance
abounded, but I saw none of them. I had
drawn myself up in an attitude of parade stiffness&mdash;neither
looked right nor left&mdash;and waited as a
criminal might have waited for the fall of the ax
that was to end his sufferings forever.
</p>

<p>
That the Emperor remained something like
two hours and a half in conversation with the
marshal, I should have been quite ready to verify
on oath; but the simple fact was, that the interview
occupied under four minutes; and then
General Oudinot backed out of the presence
leaving me alone in front of his Majesty.
</p>

<pb n='341'/><anchor id='Pg341'/>

<p>
The silence of the chamber was quite dreadful,
as, with his hands clasped behind his back, and
his head slightly thrown forward, the Emperor
stared steadily at me. I am more than half
ashamed of the confession; but what between
the effect of long illness and suffering, the length
of time I had been standing, and the emotion I
experienced, I felt myself growing dizzy, and a
sickly faintness began to creep over me, and but
for the support of my sabre, I should actually
have fallen.
</p>

<p>
<q>You seem weak; you had better sit down,</q>
said the Emperor, in a soft and mild voice.
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, sire, I have not quite recovered yet,</q>
muttered I, indistinctly; but before I could well
finish the sentence, Marmont was beside the
Emperor, and speaking rapidly to him.
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, indeed!</q> cried Napoleon, tapping his
snuff-box, and smiling. <q>This is Tiernay, then.
Parbleu! we have heard something of you before.</q>
</p>

<p>
Marmont still continued to talk on; and I heard
the words, Rhine, Genoa, and Kuffstein distinctly
fall from him. The Emperor smiled twice,
and nodded his head slowly, as if assenting to
what was said.
</p>

<p>
<q>But his wound?</q> said Napoleon, doubtingly.
</p>

<p>
<q>He says that your Majesty cured him when
the doctor despaired,</q> said Marmont. <q>I'm
sure, sire, he has equal faith in what you still
could do for him.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, sir,</q> said the Emperor, addressing me,
<q>if all I hear of you be correct, you carry a
stouter heart before the enemy than you seem to
wear here. Your name is high in Marshal Massena's
list; and General Marmont desires to have
your services on his staff. I make no objection;
you shall have your grade.</q>
</p>

<p>
I bowed without speaking; indeed, I could not
have uttered a word, even if it had been my duty.
</p>

<p>
<q>They have extracted the ball, I hope?</q> said
the Emperor to me, and pointing to my thigh.
</p>

<p>
<q>It never lodged, sire; it was a round shot,</q>
said I.
</p>

<p>
<q>Diable! a round shot! You're a lucky fellow,
Colonel Tiernay,</q> said he, laying a stress
on the title, <q>a very lucky fellow.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I shall ever think so, sire, since your Majesty
has said it,</q> was my answer.
</p>

<p>
<q>I was not a lieutenant-colonel at your age,</q>
resumed Napoleon; <q>nor were you either, Marmont.
You see, sir, that we live in better times,
at least, in times when merit is better rewarded.</q>
And with this he passed on; and Marmont, slipping
my arm within his own, led me away, down
the great stair, through crowds of attendant orderlies
and groups of servants. At last we reached
our carriage, and in half an hour re-entered Vienna,
my heart wild with excitement, and burning
with zealous ardor to do something for the service
of the Emperor.
</p>

<p>
The next morning I removed to General Marmont's
quarters; and for the first time put on
the golden aigrette of chef d'état-major, not a
little to the astonishment of all who saw the
<q>boy colonel,</q> as, half in sarcasm, half in praise,
they styled me. From an early hour of the
morning till the time of a late dinner, I was incessantly
occupied. The staff duties were excessively
severe, and the number of letters to be
read and replied to almost beyond belief. The
war had again assumed something of importance
in the Tyrol. Hofer and Spechbacher were at
the head of considerable forces, which in the
fastnesses of their native mountains were more
than a match for any regular soldiery. The
news from Spain was gloomy: England was already
threatening her long-planned attack on the
Scheldt. Whatever real importance might attach
to these movements, the Austrian cabinet made
them the pretext for demanding more favorable
conditions; and Metternich was emboldened to
go so far as to ask for the restoration of the Empire
in all its former integrity.
</p>

<p>
These negotiations between the two cabinets
at the time assumed the most singular form which
probably was ever adopted in such intercourse;
all the disagreeable intelligences and disastrous
tidings being communicated from one side to the
other with the mock politeness of friendly relations.
As for instance, the Austrian cabinet
would forward an extract from one of Hofer's
descriptions of a victory; to which the French
would reply by a bulletin of Eugene Beauharnois,
or, as Napoleon on one occasion did, by a copy
of a letter from the Emperor Alexander, filled
with expressions of friendship, and professing
the most perfect confidence in his <q>brother of
France.</q> So far was this petty and most contemptible
warfare carried, that every little gossip
and every passing story was pressed into the
service, and if not directly addressed to the cabinet,
at least conveyed to its knowledge by some
indirect channel.
</p>

<p>
It is probable I should have forgotten this
curious feature of the time, if not impressed on
my memory by personal circumstances too important
to be easily obliterated from memory.
An Austrian officer arrived one morning from
Komorn, with an account of the defeat of Lefebre's
force before Schenatz, and of a great victory
gained by Hofer and Spechbacher over the French
and Bavarians. Two thousand prisoners were
said to have been taken, and the French driven
across the Inn, and in full retreat on Kuffstein.
Now, as I had been confined at Kuffstein, and
could speak of its impregnable character from
actual observation, I was immediately sent off
with dispatches about some indifferent matter,
to the cabinet, with injunctions to speak freely
about the fortress, and declare that we were perfectly
confident of its security. I may mention
incidentally, and as showing the real character
of my mission, that a secret dispatch from Lefebre
had already reached Vienna, in which he
declared that he should be compelled to evacuate
the Tyrol, and fall back into Bavaria.
</p>

<p>
<q>I have provided you with introductions that
will secure your friendly reception,</q> said Marmont
to me. <q>The replies to these dispatches
will require some days, during which you will
have time to make many acquaintances about the
<pb n='342'/><anchor id='Pg342'/>
court, and if practicable to effect a very delicate
object.</q>
</p>

<p>
This, after considerable injunctions as to secrecy,
and so forth, was no less than to obtain a
miniature, or a copy of a miniature, of the young
archduchess, who had been so dangerously ill
during the siege of Vienna, and whom report
represented as exceedingly handsome. A good-looking
young fellow, a colonel, of two or three-and-twenty,
with unlimited bribery, if needed, at
command, should find little difficulty in the mission:
at least, so Marmont assured me; and from
his enthusiasm on the subject, I saw, or fancied
I saw, that he would have had no objection to be
employed in the service himself. For while professing
how absurd it was to offer any advice or
suggestion on such a subject to one like myself,
he entered into details, and sketched out a plan
of campaign, that might well have made a chapter
of <q>Gil Blas.</q> It would possibly happen, he
reminded me, that the Austrian court would grow
suspectful of me, and not exactly feel at ease,
were my stay prolonged beyond a day or two;
in which case it was left entirely to my ingenuity
to devise reasons for my remaining; and I was
at liberty to dispatch couriers for instructions,
and await replies, to any extent I thought requisite.
In fact, I had a species of general commission
to press into the service whatever resources
could forward the object of my mission, success
being the only point not to be dispensed with.
</p>

<p>
<q>Take a week, if you like&mdash;a month, if you
must, Tiernay,</q> said he to me at parting; <q>but,
above all, no failure! mind that&mdash;no failure!</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter LII. <q>Komorn</q> Forty Years Ago.</head>

<p>
I doubt if our great Emperor dated his first
dispatch from Schönbrunn with a prouder sense
of elevation, than did I write <q>Komorn</q> at the
top of my first letter to Marshal Marmont, detailing,
as I had been directed, every incident of
my reception. I will not pretend to say that my
communication might be regarded as a model for
diplomatic correspondence; but having since that
period seen something of the lucubrations of great
envoys and plenipos, I am only astonished at my
unconscious imitation of their style; blending, as
I did, the objects of my mission with every little
personal incident, and making each trivial circumstance
bear upon the fortune of my embassy.
</p>

<p>
I narrated my morning interview with Prince
Metternich, whose courteous but haughty politeness
was not a whit shaken by the calamitous
position of his country, and who wished to treat
the great events of the campaign as among the
transient reverses which war deals out, on this
side, to-day, on that, to-morrow. I told that my
confidence in the impregnable character of Kuffstein
only raised a smile, for it had already been
surrendered to the Tyrolese; and I summed up
my political conjectures by suggesting that there
was enough of calm confidence in the minister's
manner to induce me to suspect that they were
calculating on the support of the northern powers,
and had not given up the cause for lost. I knew
for certain that a Russian courier had arrived and
departed since my own coming; and although
the greatest secrecy had attended the event, I
ascertained the fact, that he had come from St.
Petersburg, and was returning to Moscow, where
the Emperor Alexander then was. Perhaps I
was a little piqued, I am afraid I was, at the indifference
manifested at my own presence, and
the little, or indeed no importance, attached to
my prolonged stay. For when I informed Count
Stadion that I should await some tidings from
Vienna, before returning thither, he very politely
expressed his pleasure at the prospect of my
company, and proposed that we should have some
partridge shooting, for which the country along
the Danube is famous. The younger brother of
this minister, Count Ernest Stadion, and a young
Hungarian magnate, Palakzi, were my constant
companions. They were both about my own
age, but had only joined the army that same
spring, and were most devoted admirers of one
who had already won his epaulettes as a colonel
in the French service. They showed me every
object of interest and curiosity in the neighborhood,
arranged parties for riding and shooting,
and, in fact, treated me in all respects like a
much valued guest&mdash;well repaid, as it seemed,
by those stories of war and battlefields which my
own life and memory supplied.
</p>

<p>
My improved health was already noticed by
all, when Metternich sent me a most polite
message, stating, that if my services at Vienna
could be dispensed with for a while longer, that
it was hoped I would continue to reside where I
had derived such benefit, and breathe the cheering
breezes of Hungary for the remainder of the
autumn.
</p>

<p>
It was full eight-and-twenty years later that
I accidentally learned to what curious circumstance
I owed this invitation. It chanced that
the young archduchess, who was ill during the
siege, was lingering in a slow convalescence,
and to amuse the tedious hours of her sick couch,
Madame Palakzi, the mother of my young friend,
was accustomed to recount some of the stories
which I, in the course of the morning, happened
to relate to her son. So guardedly was all this
contrived and carried on, that it was not, as I
have said, for nearly thirty years after that I
knew of it; and then, the secret was told me by
the chief personage herself, the Grand Duchess
of Parma.
</p>

<p>
Though nothing could better have chimed in
with my plans than this request, yet, in reality
the secret object of my mission appeared just as
remote as on the first day of my arrival. My acquaintances
were limited to some half dozen gentlemen
in waiting, and about an equal number
of young officers of the staff, with whom I dined,
rode, hunted, and shot; never seeing a single
member of the Imperial family, nor, stranger still,
one lady of the household. In what Turkish
seclusion they lived? when they ventured out for
air and exercise, and where? were questions that
never ceased to torture me. It was true that all
my own excursions had been on the left bank of
<pb n='343'/><anchor id='Pg343'/>
the river, toward which side the apartment I occupied
looked; but I could scarcely suppose that
the right presented much attraction, since it appeared
to be an impenetrable forest of oak; besides,
that the bridge which formerly connected
it with the island of Komorn had been cut off
during the war. Of course, this was a theme on
which I could not dare to touch; and as the reserve
of my companions was never broken regarding
it, I was obliged to be satisfied with my
own guesses on the subject.
</p>

<p>
I had been about two months at Komorn, when
I was invited to join a shooting party on the north
bank of the river, at a place called Ercacs, or, as
the Hungarians pronounce it, Ercacsh, celebrated
for the black cock, or the auerhahn, one of the
finest birds of the east of Europe. All my companions
had been promising me great things, when
the season for the sport should begin, and I was
equally anxious to display my skill as a marksman.
The scenery, too, was represented as surpassingly
fine, and I looked forward to the expedition,
which was to occupy a week, with much
interest. One circumstance alone damped the
ardor of my enjoyment: for some time back exercise
on horseback had become painful to me,
and some of those evil consequences which my
doctor had speculated on, such as exfoliation of
the bone, seemed now threatening me. Up to
this the inconvenience had gone no further than
an occasional sharp pang after a hard day's ride,
or a dull uneasy feeling which prevented my
sleeping soundly at night. I hoped, however,
by time, that these would subside, and the natural
strength of my constitution carry me safely over
every mischance. I was ashamed to speak of
these symptoms to my companions, lest they
should imagine that I was only screening myself
from the fatigues of which they so freely partook;
and so I continued, day after day, the same habit
of severe exercise; while feverish nights, and a
failing appetite, made me hourly weaker. My
spirits never flagged, and, perhaps, in this way,
damaged me seriously; supplying a false energy
long after real strength had begun to give way.
The world, indeed, <q>went so well</q> with me in
all other respects, that I felt it would have been
the blackest ingratitude against Fortune to have
given way to any thing like discontent or repining.
It was true, I was far from being a solitary
instance of a colonel at my age; there were several
such in the army, and one or two even younger;
but they were unexceptionably men of family influence,
descendants of the ancient nobility of
France, for whose chivalric names and titles the
Emperor had conceived the greatest respect; and
never, in all the pomp of Louis XIV's court,
were a Gramont, a Guise, a Rochefoucauld, or
a Tavanne more certain of his favorable notice.
Now, I was utterly devoid of all such pretensions;
my claims to gentle blood, such as they were,
derived from another land, and I might even regard
myself as the maker of my own fortune.
</p>

<p>
How little thought did I bestow on my wound,
as I mounted my horse on that mellow day of
autumn! How indifferent was I to the pang that
shot through me, as I touched the flank with my
leg. Our road led through a thick forest, but
over a surface of level sward, along which we
galloped in all the buoyancy of youth and high
spirits. An occasional trunk lay across our way,
and these we cleared at a leap; a feat, which I
well saw my Hungarian friends were somewhat
surprised to perceive, gave me no trouble whatever.
My old habits of the riding-school had
made me a perfect horseman; and rather vain
of my accomplishment, I rode at the highest
fences I could find. In one of these exploits an
acute pang shot through me, and I felt as if something
had given way in my leg. The pain for
some minutes was so intense that I could with
difficulty keep the saddle, and even when it had
partially subsided, the suffering was very great.
</p>

<p>
To continue my journey in this agony was impossible;
and yet I was reluctant to confess that
I was overcome by pain. Such an acknowledgment
seemed unsoldier-like and unworthy, and I
determined not to give way. It was no use; the
suffering brought on a sickly faintness that completely
overcame me. I had nothing for it but
to turn back; so, suddenly affecting to recollect
a dispatch that I ought to have sent off before I
left, I hastily apologized to my companions, and
with many promises to overtake them by evening,
I returned to Komorn.
</p>

<p>
A Magyar groom accompanied me, to act as
my guide; and attended by this man, I slowly
retraced my steps toward the fortress, so slowly,
indeed, that it was within an hour of sunset as
we gained the crest of the little ridge, from which
Komorn might be seen, and the course of the
Danube, as it wound for miles through the plain.
</p>

<p>
It is always a grand and imposing scene, one
of those vast Hungarian plains, with waving
woods and golden corn-fields, bounded by the
horizon on every side, and marked by those immense
villages of twelve or even twenty thousand
inhabitants. Trees, rivers, plains, even the dwellings
of the people are on a scale with which nothing
in the Old World can vie. But even with
this great landscape before me, I was more struck
by a small object which caught my eye, as I
looked toward the fortress. It was a little boat,
covered with an awning, and anchored in the
middle of the stream, and from which I could
hear the sound of a voice, singing to the accompaniment
of a guitar. There was a stern and
solemn quietude in the scene: the dark fortress,
the darker river, the deep woods casting their
shadows on the water, all presented a strange
contrast to that girlish voice and tinkling melody,
so light-hearted and so free.
</p>

<p>
The Magyar seemed to read what was passing
in my mind, for he nodded significantly, and
touching his cap in token of respect, said it was
the young Archduchess Maria Louisa, who, with
one or two of her ladies, enjoyed the cool of the
evening on the river. This was the very same
princess for whose likeness I was so eager, and
of whom I never could obtain the slightest tidings.
With what an interest that bark became
invested from that moment! I had more than
<pb n='344'/><anchor id='Pg344'/>
suspected, I had divined the reasons of General
Marmont's commission to me, and could picture
to myself the great destiny that in all likelihood
awaited her who now, in sickly dalliance, moved
her hand in the stream, and scattered the sparkling
drops in merry mood over her companions.
Twice or thrice a head of light brown hair peeped
from beneath the folds of the awning, and I wondered
within myself if it were on that same brow
that the greatest diadem of Europe was to sit.
</p>

<p>
So intent was I on these fancies, so full of the
thousand speculations that grew out of them,
that I paid no attention to what was passing,
and never noticed an object on which the Hungarian's
eyes were bent in earnest contemplation.
A quick gesture and a sudden exclamation from
the man soon attracted me, and I beheld, about
a quarter of a mile off, an enormous timber-raft
descending the stream at headlong speed. That
the great mass had become unmanageable, and
was carried along by the impetuosity of the current,
was plain enough, not only from the zig-zag
course it took, but from the wild cries and
frantic gestures of the men on board. Though
visible to us from the eminence on which we
stood, a bend of the stream still concealed it from
those in the boat. To apprise them of their
danger, we shouted with all our might, gesticulating
at the same time, and motioning to them
to put in to shore. It was all in vain; the roar
of the river, which is here almost a torrent,
drowned our voices, and the little boat still held
her place in the middle of the stream. Already
the huge mass was to be seen emerging from
behind a wooded promontory of the river side,
and now their destruction seemed inevitable.
Without waiting to reach the path, I spurred
my horse down the steep descent, and half falling,
and half plunging, gained the bank. To
all seeming now, they heard me, for I saw the
curtain of the awning suddenly move, and a
boatman's red cap peer from beneath it. I
screamed and shouted with all my might, and
called out <q>The raft&mdash;the raft!</q> till my throat
felt bursting. For some seconds the progress of
the great mass seemed delayed, probably by having
become entangled with the trees along the
shore; but now, borne along by its immense
weight, it swung round the angle of the bank,
and came majestically on, a long, white wave
marking its course as it breasted the water.
</p>

<p>
They see it! they see it! Oh! good heavens!
are they paralyzed with terror, for the boatman
never moves! A wild shriek rises above the
roar of the current, and yet they do nothing.
What prayers and cries of entreaty, what wild
imprecations I uttered, I know not; but I am
sure that reason had already left me, and nothing
remained in its place except the mad impulse to
save them, or perish. There was then so much
of calculation in my mind that I could balance
the chances of breasting the stream on horseback,
or alone, and this done, I spurred my animal
over the bank into the Danube. A horse is
a noble swimmer, when he has courage, and a
Hungarian horse rarely fails in this quality.
</p>

<p>
Heading toward the opposite shore, the gallant
beast cleared his track through the strong current,
snorting madly, and seeming to plunge at
times against the rushing waters. I never turned
my eyes from the skiff all this time, and now
could see the reason of what had seemed their
apathy. The anchor had become entangled,
fouled among some rocks or weeds of the river,
and the boatman's efforts to lift it were all in
vain. I screamed and yelled to the man to cut
the rope, but my cries were unheard, for he bent
over the gunwale, and tugged and tore with all
his might. I was more than fifty yards higher
up the stream, and rapidly gaining the calmer
water under shore, when I tried to turn my
horse's head down the current; but the instinct
of safety rebelled against all control, and the
animal made straight for the bank. There was
then but one chance left, and taking my sabre in
my mouth, I sprang from his back into the stream.
In all the terrible excitement of that dreadful
moment I clung to one firm purpose. The current
would surely carry the boat into safety, if
once free; I had no room for any thought but
this. The great trees along shore, the great fortress,
the very clouds over head, seemed to fly
past me, as I swept along; but I never lost sight
of my purpose, and now almost within my grasp.
I see the boat and the three figures, who are
bending down over one that seems to have fainted.
With my last effort, I cry again to cut the
rope, but his knife has broken at the handle! I
touch the side of the skiff, I grasp the gunwale
with one hand, and seizing my sabre with the
other, I make one desperate cut. The boat
swings round to the current, the boatman's oars
are out&mdash;they are saved. My <q>thank God!</q> is
like the cry of a drowning man&mdash;for I know no
more.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter LIII. A Loss And A Gain.</head>

<p>
To apologize to my reader for not strictly tracing
out each day of my history, would be, in all
likelihood, as great an impertinence as that of
the tiresome guest who, having kept you two
hours from your bed by his uninteresting twaddle,
asks you to forgive him at last for an abrupt
departure. I am already too full of gratitude for
the patience that has been conceded to me so far,
to desire to trifle with it during the brief space
that is now to link us together. And believe
me, kind reader, there is more in that same tie
than perhaps you think, especially where the
intercourse had been carried on, and, as it were,
fed from month to month. In such cases the relationship
between him who writes and him who
reads assumes something like acquaintanceship;
heightened by a greater desire on one side to
please, than is usually felt in the routine business
of everyday life. Nor is it a light reward,
if one can think that he has relieved a passing
hour of solitude or discomfort, shortened a wintry
night, or made a rainy day more endurable.
I speak not here of the greater happiness in
knowing that our inmost thoughts have found
<pb n='345'/><anchor id='Pg345'/>
their echo in far away hearts, kindling noble
emotions, and warming generous aspirations,
teaching courage and hope by the very commonest
of lessons; and showing that, in the moral
as in the vegetable world, the bane and antidote
grow side by side; and, as the eastern poet has
it, <q>He who shakes the tree of sorrow, is often
sowing the seeds of joy.</q> Such are the triumphs
of very different efforts from mine, however, and
I come back to the humble theme from which I
started.
</p>

<p>
If I do not chronicle the incidents which succeeded
to the events of my last chapter, it is, in
the first place, because they are most imperfectly
impressed upon my own memory; and, in the
second, they are of a nature which, whether in the
hearing or the telling, can afford little pleasure;
for what if I should enlarge upon a text which
runs but on suffering and sickness, nights of
feverish agony, days of anguish, terrible alternations
of hope and fear, ending, at last, in the
sad, sad certainty, that skill has found its limit.
The art of the surgeon can do no more, and
Maurice Tiernay must consent to lose his leg!
Such was the cruel news I was compelled to
listen to as I awoke one morning dreaming, and
for the first time since my accident, of my life in
Kuffstein. The injuries I had received before
being rescued from the Danube, had completed
the mischief already begun, and all chance of
saving my limb had now fled. I am not sure if
I could not have heard a sentence of death with
more equanimity than the terrible announcement
that I was to drag out existence maimed and
crippled. To endure the helplessness of age
with the warm blood and daring passions of
youth, and, worse than all, to forego a career
that was already opening with such glorious
prospects of distinction.
</p>

<p>
Nothing could be more kindly considerate than
the mode of communicating this sad announcement;
nor was there omitted any thing which
could alleviate the bitterness of the tidings. The
undying gratitude of the Imperial family; their
heartfelt sorrow for my suffering; the pains they
had taken to communicate the whole story of my
adventure to the Emperor Napoleon himself,
were all insisted on; while the personal visits
of the Archdukes, and even the Emperor himself,
at my sick bed, were told to me with every
flattery such acts of condescension could convey.
Let me not be thought ungrateful, if all these
seemed but a sorry payment for the terrible sacrifice
I was to suffer; and that the glittering
crosses which were already sent to me in recognition,
and which now sparkled on my bed, appeared
a poor price for my shattered and wasted
limb; and I vowed to myself that to be once
more strong and in health I'd change fortunes
with the humblest soldier in the grand army.
</p>

<p>
After all, it is the doubtful alone can break
down the mind and waste the courage. To the
brave man, the inevitable is always the endurable.
Some hours of solitude and reflection
brought this conviction to my heart, and I recalled
the rash refusal I had already given to
submit to the amputation, and sent word to the
doctors that I was ready. My mind once made
up, a thousand ingenious suggestions poured in
their consolations. Instead of incurring my misfortune
as I had done, my mischance might have
originated in some commonplace or inglorious
accident. In lieu of the proud recognitions I
had earned, I might have now the mere sympathy
of some fellow-sufferer in an hospital; and
instead of the <q>Cross of St. Stephen,</q> and the
<q>valor medal</q> of Austria, my reward might have
been the few sous per day allotted to an invalided
soldier.
</p>

<p>
As it was, each post from Vienna brought me
nothing but flattering recognitions; and one
morning a large sealed letter from Duroc conveyed
the Emperor's own approval of my conduct,
with the cross of commander of the Legion
of Honor. A whole life of arduous services might
have failed to win such prizes, and so I struck
the balance of good and evil fortune, and found
I was the gainer!
</p>

<p>
Among the presents which I received from
the Imperial family was a miniature of the young
Archduchess, whose life I saved, and which I at
once dispatched by a safe messenger to Marshal
Marmont, engaging him to have a copy of it
made and the original returned to me. I concluded
that circumstances must have rendered
this impossible, for I never beheld the portrait
again, although I heard of it among the articles
bequeathed to the Duc de Reichstadt at St. Helena.
Maria Louisa was, at that time, very
handsome; the upper lip and mouth were, it is
true, faulty, and the Austrian heaviness marred
the expression of these features; but her brow
and eyes were singularly fine, and her hair of a
luxuriant richness rarely to be seen.
</p>

<p>
Count Palakzi, my young Hungarian friend,
and who had scarcely ever quitted my bedside
during my illness, used to jest with me on my
admiration of the young Archduchess, and jokingly
compassionate me on the altered age we
lived in, in contrast to those good old times when
a bold feat or a heroic action was sure to win
the hand of a fair princess. I half suspect that
he believed me actually in love with her, and
deemed that it was the best way to treat such
an absurd and outrageous ambition. To amuse
myself with his earnestness, for such had it become,
on the subject, I affected not to be indifferent
to his allusions, and assumed all the delicate
reserve of devoted admiration. Many an
hour have I lightened by watching the fidgety
uneasiness the young count felt at my folly; for
now instead of jesting, as before, he tried to
reason me out of this insane ambition, and convince
me that such pretensions were utter madness.
</p>

<p>
I was slowly convalescing, about five weeks
after the amputation of my leg, when Palakzi
entered my room one morning with an open letter
in his hand. His cheek was flushed, and
his air and manner greatly excited.
</p>

<p>
<q>Would you believe it, Tiernay,</q> said he,
<q>Stadion writes me word from Vienna, that Napoleon
<pb n='346'/><anchor id='Pg346'/>
has asked for the hand of the young
Archduchess in marriage, and that the Emperor
has consented?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And am <emph>I</emph> not considered in this negotiation?</q>
asked I, scarcely suppressing a laugh.
</p>

<p>
<q>This is no time nor theme for jest,</q> said he,
passionately; <q>nor is it easy to keep one's temper
at such a moment. A Hapsburgher Princess
married to a low Corsican adventurer! to
the&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Come, Palakzi,</q> cried I, <q>these are not
words for me to listen to; and having heard
them, I may be tempted to say, that the honor
comes all of the other side; and that he who
holds all Europe at his feet ennobles the dynasty
from which he selects his empress.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I deny it&mdash;fairly and fully deny it!</q> cried
the passionate youth. <q>And every noble of this
land would rather see the provinces of the empire
torn from us, than a Princess of the Imperial
House degraded to such an alliance!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Is the throne of France, then, so low?</q> said
I, calmly.
</p>

<p>
<q>Not when the rightful sovereign is seated
on it,</q> said he. <q>But are we, the subjects of a
legitimate monarchy, to accept as equals the
lucky accidents of your Revolution? By what
claim is a soldier of fortune the peer of King or
Kaiser? I, for one, will never more serve a
cause so degraded; and the day on which such
humiliation is our lot shall be the last of my
soldiering;</q> and so saying, he rushed passionately
from the room, and disappeared.
</p>

<p>
I mention this little incident here, not as in
any way connecting itself with my own fortunes,
but as illustrating what I afterward discovered
to be the universal feeling entertained toward
this alliance. Low as Austria then was&mdash;beaten
in every battle&mdash;her vast treasury confiscated&mdash;her
capital in the hands of an enemy&mdash;her very
existence as an empire threatened; the thought
of this insult&mdash;for such they deemed it&mdash;to the
Imperial House, seemed to make the burden unendurable;
and many who would have sacrificed
territory and power for a peace, would have
scorned to accept it at such a price as this.
</p>

<p>
I suppose the secret history of the transaction
will never be disclosed; but living as I did, at
the time, under the same roof with the royal
family, I inclined to think that their counsels
were of a divided nature; that while the Emperor
and the younger Archdukes gave a favorable
ear to the project, the Empress and the
Archduke Charles as steadily opposed it. The
gossip of the day spoke of dreadful scenes between
the members of the Imperial House, and
some have since asserted that the breaches of
affection that were then made never were reconciled
in after life.
</p>

<p>
With these events of state or private history I
have no concern. My position and my nationality,
of course, excluded me from confidential
intercourse with those capable of giving correct
information; nor can I record any thing beyond
the mere current rumors of the time. This much,
however, I could remark, that all whom conviction,
policy, or perhaps bribery inclined to the
alliance, were taken into court favor, and replaced
in the offices of the household those
whose opinions were adverse. A total change,
in fact, took place in the persons of the royal
suite, and the Hungarian nobles, many of whom
filled the <q>Hautes Chargés,</q> as they are called,
now made way for Bohemian grandees, who were
understood to entertain more favorable sentiments
toward France. Whether in utter despair of the
cause for which they had suffered so long and so
much, or that they were willing to accept this
alliance with the oldest dynasty of Europe as a
compromise, I am unable to say; but so was it.
Many of the emigré nobility of France, the unflinching,
implacable enemies of Bonaparte, consented
to bury their ancient grudges, and were
now seen accepting place and office in the Austrian
household. This was a most artful flattery
of the Austrians, and was peculiarly agreeable to
Napoleon, who longed to legalize his position by
a reconciliation with the old followers of the
Bourbons, and who dreaded their schemes and
plots far more than he feared all the turbulent
violence of the <q>Faubourg.</q> In one day, no
fewer than three French nobles were appointed
to places of trust in the household, and a special
courier was sent off to Gratz to convey the appointment
of maid of honor to a young French
lady who lived there in exile.
</p>

<p>
Each of my countrymen on arriving came to
visit me. They had all known my father by
name, if not personally, and most graciously acknowledged
me as one of themselves, a flattery
they sincerely believed above all price.
</p>

<p>
I had heard much of the overweening vanity
and conceit of the Legitimatists, but the reality
far exceeded all my notions of them. There was
no pretense, no affectation whatever about them.
They implicitly believed that in <q>accepting the
Corsican,</q> as the phrase went, they were displaying
a condescension and self-negation unparalleled
in history. The tone of superiority
thus assumed, of course made them seem supremely
ridiculous to my eyes&mdash;I, who had sacrificed
heavily enough for the Empire, and yet
felt myself amply rewarded. But apart from
these exaggerated ideas of themselves, they were
most amiable, gentle-mannered, and agreeable.
</p>

<p>
The ladies and gentlemen of what was called
the <q>Service,</q> associated all together, dining at
the same table, and spending each evening in a
handsome suite appropriated to themselves.
Hither some one or other of the Imperial family
occasionally came to play his whist, or chat away
an hour in pleasant gossip; these distinguished
visitors never disturbing in the slightest degree
the easy tone of the society, nor exacting any
extraordinary marks of notice or attention.
</p>

<p>
The most frequent guest was the Archduke
Louis, whose gayety of temperament and easy
humor induced him to pass nearly every evening
with us. He was fond of cards, but liked to talk
away over his game, and make play merely subsidiary
to the pleasure of conversation. As I
was but an indifferent <q>whister,</q> but a most admirable
<pb n='347'/><anchor id='Pg347'/>
auditor, I was always selected to make
one of his party.
</p>

<p>
It was on one of the evenings when we were
so engaged, and the Archduke had been displaying
a more than ordinary flow of good spirits and
merriment, a sudden lull in the approving laughter,
and a general subsidence of every murmur,
attracted my attention. I turned my head to see
what had occurred, and perceived that all the
company had risen, and were standing with eyes
directed to the open door.
</p>

<p>
<q>The Archduchess, your Imperial Highness!</q>
whispered an aid-de-camp to the Prince, and he
immediately rose from the table, an example
speedily followed by the others. I grasped my
chair with one hand, and with my sword in the
other, tried to stand up, an effort which hitherto
I had never accomplished without aid. It was
all in vain&mdash;my debility utterly denied the attempt.
I tried again, but overcome by pain and
weakness, I was compelled to abandon the effort,
and sink down on my seat, faint and trembling.
By this time the company had formed into a circle,
leaving the Archduke Louis alone in the
middle of the room; I, to my increasing shame
and confusion, being seated exactly behind where
the Prince stood.
</p>

<p>
There was a hope for me still; the Archduchess
might pass on through the rooms without my
being noticed. And this seemed likely enough,
since she was merely proceeding to the apartments
of the Empress, and not to delay with us.
This expectation was soon destined to be extinguished;
for, leaning on the arm of one of
her ladies, the young Princess came straight over
to where Prince Louis stood. She said something
in a low voice, and he turned immediately
to offer her a chair; and there was I seated, very
pale, and very much shocked at my apparent
rudeness. Although I had been presented before
to the young Archduchess, she had not seen me
in the uniform of the Corps de Guides (in which
I now served as colonel), and never recognized
me. She therefore stared steadily at me, and
turned toward her brother as if for explanation.
</p>

<p>
<q>Don't you know him?</q> said the Archduke,
laughing; <q>it's Colonel de Tiernay, and if he
can not stand up, <emph>you</emph> certainly should be the
last to find fault with him. Pray, sit quiet, Tiernay,</q>
added he, pressing me down on my seat;
<q>and if you won't look so terrified, my sister
will remember you.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>We must both be more altered than I ever
expect if I cease to remember M. de Tiernay,</q>
said the Archduchess, with a most courteous
smile. Then leaning on the back of a chair, she
bent forward and inquired after my health. There
was something so strange in the situation: a
young, handsome girl condescending to a tone
of freedom and intimacy with one she had seen
but a couple of times, and from whom the difference
of condition separated her by a gulf wide
as the great ocean, that I felt a nervous tremor I
could not account for. Perhaps, with the tact
that royalty possesses as its own prerogative, or,
perhaps, with mere womanly intuition, she saw
how the interview agitated me, and, to change
the topic, she suddenly said:
</p>

<p>
<q>I must present you to one of my ladies, Colonel
de Tiernay, a countrywoman of your own.
She already has heard from me the story of your
noble devotion, and now only has to learn your
name. Remember you are to sit still.</q>
</p>

<p>
As she said this, she turned, and drawing her
arm within that of a young lady behind her, led
her forward.
</p>

<p>
<q>It is to this gentleman I owe my life, Mademoiselle
D'Estelles.</q>
</p>

<p>
I heard no more, nor did she either; for, faltering,
she uttered a low, faint sigh, and fell into
the arms of those behind her.
</p>

<p>
<q>What's this, Tiernay!&mdash;how is all this?</q>
whispered Prince Louis; <q>are you acquainted
with mademoiselle?</q>
</p>

<p>
But I forgot every thing; the presence in
which I stood, the agony of a wounded leg, and
all, and, with a violent effort, sprung from my
seat.
</p>

<p>
Before I could approach her, however, she had
risen from the chair, and in a voice broken and
interrupted, said:
</p>

<p>
<q>You are so changed, M. de Tiernay&mdash;so
much changed&mdash;that the shock overpowered me.
We became acquainted in the Tyrol, madame,</q>
said she to the Princess, <q>where monsieur was
a prisoner.</q>
</p>

<p>
What observation the Princess made in reply
I could not hear, but I saw that Laura blushed
deeply. To hide her awkwardness perhaps it
was, that she hurriedly entered into some account
of our former intercourse, and I could observe
that some allusion to the Prince de Condé dropped
from her.
</p>

<p>
<q>How strange, how wonderful is all that you
tell me!</q> said the Princess, who bent forward
and whispered some words to Prince Louis; and
then, taking Laura's arm, she moved on, saying
in a low voice to me, <q>Au revoir, monsieur,</q> as
she passed.
</p>

<p>
<q>You are to come and drink tea in the Archduchess's
apartments, Tiernay,</q> said Prince
Louis; <q>you'll meet your old friend, Mademoiselle
D'Estelles, and of course you have a
hundred recollections to exchange with each
other.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Prince insisted on my accepting his arm,
and, as he assisted me along, informed me that
old Madame D'Acgreville was dead about a year,
leaving her niece an immense fortune&mdash;at least
a claim to one&mdash;only wanting the sanction of the
Emperor Napoleon to become valid; for it was
one of the estreated but not confiscated estates
of La Vendée. Every word that dropped from
the Prince extinguished some hope within me.
More beautiful than ever, her rank recognized,
and in possession of a vast fortune, what chance
had I, a poor soldier of fortune, of success?
</p>

<p>
<q>Don't sigh, Tiernay,</q> said the Prince, laughing;
<q>you've lost a leg for us, and we must lend
you a hand in return;</q> and with this we entered
the salon of the Archduchess.
</p>

<pb n='348'/><anchor id='Pg348'/>

<p>
Maurice Tiernay's <q>Last Word And Confession.</q>
</p>

<p>
I have been very frank with my readers in
these memoirs of my life. If I have dwelt somewhat
vain-gloriously on passing moments of success,
it must be owned that I have not spared
my vanity and self-conceit, when either betrayed
me into any excess of folly. I have neither
blinked my humble beginnings, nor have I sought
to attribute to my own merits those happy accidents
which made me what I am. I claim nothing
but the humble character&mdash;a Soldier of
Fortune. It was my intention to have told the
reader somewhat more than these twenty odd
years of my life embrace. Probably, too, my
subsequent career, if less marked by adventure,
was more pregnant with true views of the world
and sounder lessons of conduct; but I have discovered
to my surprise that these revelations have
extended over a wider surface than I ever destined
them to occupy, and already I tremble for
the loss of that gracious attention that has been
vouchsafed me hitherto. I will not trust myself
to say how much regret this abstinence has cost
me; enough if I avow that in jotting down the
past I have lived my youth over again, and in
tracing old memories, old scenes, and old impressions,
the smouldering fire of my heart has
shot up a transient flame so bright as to throw a
glow even over the chill of my old age.
</p>

<p>
It is, after all, no small privilege to have lived
and borne one's part in stirring times; to have
breasted the ocean of life when the winds were
up and the waves ran high; to have mingled,
however humbly, in eventful scenes, and had
one's share in the mighty deeds that were to become
history afterward. It is assuredly in such
trials that humanity comes out best, and that the
character of man displays all its worthiest and
noblest attributes. Amid such scenes I began
my life, and, in the midst of similar ones, if my
prophetic foresight deceive me not, I am like to
end it.
</p>

<p>
Having said this much of and for myself, I am
sure the reader will pardon me if I am not equally
communicative with respect to another, and if I
pass over the remainder of that interval which
I spent at Komorn. Even were love-making&mdash;which
assuredly it is not&mdash;as interesting to the
spectator as to those engaged, I should scruple
to recount events which delicacy should throw a
vail over; nor am I induced, even by the example
of the wittiest periodical writer of the age, to
make a <q>feuilleton</q> of my own marriage. Enough
that I say, despite my shattered form, my want
of fortune, my unattested pretension to rank or
station, Mademoiselle D'Estelles accepted me,
and the Emperor most graciously confirmed her
claims to wealth, thus making me one of the
richest and the very happiest among the Soldiers
of Fortune.
</p>

<p>
The Père Delamoy, now superior of a convent
at Pisa, came to Komorn to perform the ceremony;
and if he could not altogether pardon
those who had uprooted the ancient monarchy of
France, yet did not conceal his gratitude to him
who had restored the Church and rebuilt the
altar.
</p>

<p>
There may be some who deem this closing
abrupt, and who would wish for even a word
about the bride, her bouquet, and her blushes. I
can not afford to gratify so laudable a curiosity,
at the same time that a lurking vanity induces
me to say, that any one wishing to know more
about the <q>personnel</q> of my wife or myself, has
but to look at David's picture, or the engraving
made from it, of the Emperor's marriage. There
they will find, in the left hand corner, partly concealed
behind the Grand Duke de Berg, an officer
of the Guides, supporting on his arm a
young and very beautiful girl, herself a bride.
If the young lady's looks are turned with more
interest on her companion than upon the gorgeous
spectacle, remember that she is but a few weeks
married. If the soldier carry himself with less
of martial vigor or grace, pray bear in mind that
cork legs had not attained the perfection to which
later skill has brought them.
</p>

<p>
I have the scene stronger before me than painting
can depict, and my eyes fill as I now behold
it in my memory!
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Anecdotes And Aphorisms.</head>

<p>
As it is likely some of our readers have never
read <q>Napier's Life of Montrose,</q> we think
it may not be amiss to insert an extract descriptive
of the execution of that nobleman. It need
scarcely be mentioned that this is the famous
Graham of Claverhouse, whom Sir Walter Scott
has drawn with such fine effect in one of his best
novels.
</p>

<p>
It was resolved to celebrate his entrance into
Edinburgh with a kind of mock solemnity. Thus
on Sunday, the 18th of May, the magistrates met
him at the gates, and led him in triumph through
the streets. First appeared his officers, bound
with cords, and walking two and two; then was
seen the Marquis, placed on a high chair in the
hangman's cart, with his hands pinioned, and his
hat pulled off, while the hangman himself continued
covered by his side. It is alleged in a
contemporary record, that the reason of his being
tied to the cart was, in hope that the people
would have stoned him, and that he might
not be able by his hands to save his face. In
all the procession there appeared in Montrose
such majesty, courage, modesty, and even somewhat
more than natural, that even these women
who had lost their husbands and children in
his wars, and were hired to stone him, were,
upon the sight of him, so astonished and moved,
that their intended curses turned into tears and
prayers. Of the many thousand spectators only
one, Lady Jane Gordon, Countess of Haddington,
was heard to scoff and laugh aloud. Montrose
himself continued to display the same serenity
of temper, when at last, late in the evening,
he was allowed to enter his prison, and
found there a deputation from the Parliament.
He merely expressed to them his satisfaction at
the near approach of the Sunday as the day of
rest.
</p>

<pb n='349'/><anchor id='Pg349'/>

<p>
<q>For,</q> said he, <q>the compliment you put upon
me this day was a little tedious and fatiguing.</q>
</p>

<p>
Montrose told his persecutors that he was
more proud to have his head fixed on the top
of the prison walls than that his picture should
hang in the king's bed-chamber, and that far
from being troubled at his legs and arms being
dispersed among the four principal cities, he only
wished he had limbs to send to every city in
Christendom, as testimonies of his unshaken
attachment to the cause in which he suffered.
When Sir Archibald Johnson of Warriston, the
Clerk-Register, entered the prisoner's cell, and
found him employed, early in the morning, combing
the long curled hair which he wore according
to the custom of the cavaliers, the visitor
muttered:
</p>

<p>
<q>Why is James Graham so careful of his
locks?</q>
</p>

<p>
Montrose replied with a smile:
</p>

<p>
<q>While my head is my own, I will dress and
adorn it; but when it becomes yours, you may
treat it as you please.</q>
</p>

<p>
Montrose, proud of the cause in which he was
to suffer, clad himself, on the day of his execution,
in rich attire&mdash;<q>more becoming a bridegroom,</q>
says one of his enemies, <q>than a criminal
going to the gallows.</q> As he walked along,
and beheld the instrument of his doom, his step
was not seen to falter nor his eye quail; to the
last he bore himself with such steadfast courage,
such calm dignity, as had seldom been equaled,
and never surpassed. At the foot of the scaffold,
a further and parting insult was reserved for
him: the executioner brought Dr. Wishart's
narrative of his exploits and his own manifesto,
to hang round his neck; but Montrose himself
assisted in binding them, and smiling at this new
token of malice, merely said:&mdash;<q>I did not feel
more honored when his majesty sent me the garter.</q>
</p>

<p>
He then asked whether they had any more indignities
to put upon him, and finding there were
none, he prayed for some time, with his hat before
his eyes. He drew apart some of the magistrates,
and spoke awhile with them, and then
went up the ladder in his red scarlet cassock, in
a very stately manner, and never spoke a word;
but when the executioner was putting the cord
about his neck, he looked down to the people
upon the scaffold, and asked:
</p>

<p>
<q>How long shall I hang here?</q>
</p>

<p>
His head was afterward affixed to a spike at
the top of the Tolbooth, where it remained a
ghastly spectacle, during ten years.
</p>

<p>
There is another execution scene, that of the
courtly and enterprising Walter Raleigh, not
usually accessible to general readers.
</p>

<p>
Sir Walter Raleigh, on the morning of his
execution, received a cup of sack, and remarked
that he liked it as well as the prisoner who drank
of St. Giles's bowl in passing through Tyburn,
and said, <q>It is good to drink if a man might
but tarry by it.</q> He turned to his old friend,
Sir Hugh Ceeston, who was repulsed by the
sheriff from the scaffold, saying:
</p>

<p>
<q>Never fear but <emph>I</emph> shall have a place.</q>
</p>

<p>
When a man extremely bald pressed forward
to see Raleigh, and to pray for him, Sir Walter
took from his own head a richly embroidered
cap, and placing it on that of the aged spectator,
said:
</p>

<p>
<q>Take this, good friend, to remember me, for
you have more need of it than I.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Farewell, my lords,</q> he exclaimed to a
courtly group, who took an affectionate leave of
him; <q>I have a long journey before me, and
must say good-by.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Now I am going to God,</q> said he, as he
reached the scaffold; and gently touching the
ax, continued, <q>This is a sharp medicine, but it
will cure all diseases.</q>
</p>

<p>
The very executioner shrunk from beheading
one so brave and illustrious, until the unintimidated
knight encouraged him, saying:
</p>

<p>
<q>What dost thou fear? Strike, man!</q>
</p>

<p>
In another moment the great soul had fled
from its mangled tenement.
</p>

<p>
Next shall be related the story of the Tower
Ghost; <q>communicated by Sir David Brewster
to Professor Gregory,</q> and authentically recorded
in <q>Letters on Animal Magnetism?</q>
</p>

<p>
At the trial of Queen Caroline, in 1821, the
guards of the Tower were doubled; and Colonel
S&mdash;&mdash;, the keeper of the Regalia, was quartered
there with his family. Toward twilight one
evening, and before dark, he, his wife, son, and
daughter were sitting, listening to the sentinels,
who were singing and answering one another, on
the beats above and below. The evening was
sultry, and the door stood ajar, when something
suddenly rolled in through the open space. Colonel
S&mdash;&mdash; at first thought it was a cloud of
smoke, but it assumed the shape of a pyramid
of dark thick gray, with something working toward
its centre. Mrs. S&mdash;&mdash; saw a form. Miss
S&mdash;&mdash; felt an indescribable sensation of chill and
horror. The son sat at the window, staring at
the terrified and agitated party; but saw nothing.
Mrs. S&mdash;&mdash; threw her head down upon her arms
on the table, and screamed. The Colonel took
a chair, and hurled it at the phantom, through
which it passed. The cloud seemed to him to
revolve round the room, and then disappear, as it
came, through the door. He had scarcely risen
from his chair to follow, when he heard a loud
shriek, and a heavy fall at the bottom of the stair.
He stopped to listen, and in a few minutes the
guard came up and challenged the poor sentry,
who had been so lately singing, but who now lay
at the entrance in a swoon. The sergeant shook
him rudely, declared he was asleep at his post,
and put him under arrest. Next day the soldier
was brought to a court-martial, when Colonel
S&mdash;&mdash; appeared on his behalf, to testify that he
could not have been asleep, for that he had been
singing, and the Colonel's family had been listening,
ten minutes before. The man declared that,
while walking toward the stair-entrance, a dreadful
figure had issued from the doorway, which he
took at first for an escaped bear on its hind legs.
It passed him, and scowled upon him with a
<pb n='350'/><anchor id='Pg350'/>
human face, and the expression of a demon, disappearing
over the Barbican. He was so frightened
that he became giddy, and knew no more.
His story, of course, was not credited by his
judges; but he was believed to have had an
attack of vertigo, and was acquitted and released
on Colonel's S&mdash;&mdash;'s evidence.
</p>

<p>
That evening Colonel S&mdash;&mdash; went to congratulate
the man, but he was so changed that he
did not know him. From a glow of rude health
in his handsome face, he had become of the
color of bad paste. Colonel S&mdash;&mdash; said to
him:
</p>

<p>
<q>Why do you look so dejected, my lad? I
think I have done you a great favor in getting
you off; and I would advise you in future to
continue your habit of singing.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Colonel,</q> replied the sentry, <q>you have saved
my character, and I thank you; but as for any
thing else, it little signifies. From the moment
I saw that infernal demon, I felt I was a dead
man.</q>
</p>

<p>
He never recovered his spirits, and died next
day, forty-eight hours after he had seen the
spectre. Colonel S&mdash;&mdash; had conversed with the
sergeant about it, who quietly remarked:
</p>

<p>
<q>It was a bad job, but he was only a recruit,
and must get used to it like the rest.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What!</q> said Colonel S&mdash;&mdash;, <q>have you
heard of others seeing the same?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, yes,</q> answered the sergeant, <q>there are
many queer, unaccountable things seen here, I
assure you, and many of our recruits faint a time
or two; but they get used to it, and it don't hurt
them.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Mrs. S&mdash;&mdash; never got used to it. She remained
in a state of dejection for six weeks, and
then died. Colonel S&mdash;&mdash; was long recovering
from the impression, and was reluctant to speak
of it; but he said he would never deny the thing
he had seen.</q>
</p>

<p>
What explanation Sir David Brewster has
given of this singular apparition, the present writer
does not happen to know. We quote it for its
strangeness, and leave the reader to make of it
what he can. We proceed with a curious instance
of mental absence:
</p>

<p>
Lessing, the German philosopher, being remarkably
absent, knocked at his own door one
evening, when the servant looking out of the
window, and not recognizing him, said:
</p>

<p>
<q>The professor is not at home!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, very well!</q> replied Lessing, composedly
walking away; <q>I shall call another time.</q>
</p>

<p>
There is an anecdote of successful coolness,
of earlier date, which will serve very well to accompany
the foregoing:
</p>

<p>
Charles II., after his restoration, appears,
according to custom, to have neglected his most
faithful adherent, Lord St. Albans, who nevertheless
was a frequenter of the court. One day,
when a gentleman had requested an interview
of his majesty to ask for a valuable office then
vacant, the king in jest desired the Earl of St.
Albans to personate him, which he did before
the whole court; but, after hearing the stranger's
petition with an air of dignified authority, he said
that the office was by no means too great for so
deserving a subject. <q>But,</q> added the earl,
gravely, <q>I have already conferred it on my
faithful adherent, Lord St. Albans, who constantly
followed my father's fortunes and my own,
having never before received any reward.</q> The
king was so amused by this ready jest that he
instantly confirmed the gift to his clever representative.
</p>

<p>
But we have yet a cooler thing (though somewhat
different in character) than either of the
preceding to bring forward, and which, if true, is
really one of the strangest incidents that could
happen in a man's experience.
</p>

<p>
Barthe, a writer of French comedies, hearing
that his intimate friend Colardeau was on the
point of death, instantly hastened to the sick
man's chamber, and finding him still in a condition
to listen, addressed him thus:
</p>

<p>
<q>My dear friend, I am in despair at seeing
you in this extremity, but I have still one favor
to ask of you; it is that you will hear me read
my 'Homme Personnel.'</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Consider,</q> replied the dying man, <q>that I
have only a few hours to live.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Alas! yes; and this is the very reason that
makes me so desirous of knowing what you think
of my play.</q>
</p>

<p>
His unhappy friend heard him to the end without
saying a word, and then in a faint voice, observed,
that there was yet one very striking feature
wanted to complete the character which he
had been designing.
</p>

<p>
<q>You must make him,</q> said he, <q>force a friend
who is dying to listen to a comedy in five acts.</q>
</p>

<p>
Our collector has treasured up two or three
tolerable anecdotes of that artfullest of <q>dodgers,</q>
Talleyrand, which, though not new to every body
are likely to have a novelty for some, and there
fore may bear quoting.
</p>

<p>
After the Pope had excommunicated him, he
is reported to have written to a friend, saying,
<q>Come and comfort me; come and sup with me.
Every body is going to refuse me fire and water;
we shall therefore have nothing this evening but
iced meats, and drink nothing but wine.</q> When
Louis XVIII., at the restoration, praised Talleyrand
for his talents and influence, the latter modestly
disclaimed the compliment, but added, with
an arch significance, <q>There is, however, some
inexplicable thing about me which prevents any
government from prospering that attempts to set
me aside.</q> The next is exquisitely <emph>diplomatic</emph>.
A banker, anxious about the rise or fall of stocks,
came once to Talleyrand for information respecting
the truth of a rumor that George III. had
suddenly died, when the statesman replied, in a
confidential tone, <q>I shall be delighted if the information
I have to give be of any use to you.</q>
The banker was enchanted at the prospect of obtaining
authentic intelligence from so high a
source; and Talleyrand, with a mysterious air
continued, <q>Some say the King of England is
dead; others, that he is not dead; for my own
part, I believe neither the one nor the other. I
<pb n='351'/><anchor id='Pg351'/>
tell you this in confidence, but do not commit
me.</q> No better parody on modern diplomacy
could easily be written.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Curious Page Of Family History.</head>

<p>
The Chambellans were an old Yorkshire family,
which once had held a high place among
the landed gentry of the county. A knight of
that family had been a Crusader in the army of
Richard Cœur de Lion; and now he lay, with all
his insignia about him, in the parish church,
while others of his race reposed in the same
chancel, under monuments and brasses, which
spoke of their name and fame during their generation.
In the lapse of time the family had become
impoverished, and gradually merged into
the class of yeomen, retaining only a remnant of
the broad lands which had once belonged to them.
In 1744-5, the elder branch of the family, consisting
of the father, two sons, and a daughter,
resided at what had once been the mansion-house.
It had been built originally in the reign of Stephen,
and was a curious specimen of different
kinds of architecture, bearing traces of its gradual
transformation from the stronghold of the
days when it was no metaphor to say that every
man's house was his castle, down to the more
peaceful dwelling of lawful and orderly times,
It had now become little more than a better sort
of farm-house. What had been the tilt-yard was
filled with a row of comfortable barns, cart-sheds,
and hay-stacks: a low wall of rough gray stones
inclosed a small garden: a narrow gravel walk,
edged on each side with currant-trees and gooseberry-bushes,
led up to the fine old porch, embowered
in the ivy and creepers which covered
nearly the whole of the building with its luxuriant
growth. The old gateway at the entrance
of the yard was still surmounted with the <q>coat
armor</q> of the family, carved in stone; but the
gates themselves had long ago disappeared, and
been replaced by a common wooden farm-yard
gate. The <q>coat armor</q> itself was covered with
moss, and a fine crop of grass and house-leek
grew among the stones of the walls, to which it
would have communicated a desolate appearance,
if the farm-yard arrangements had been less orderly.
</p>

<p>
Halsted Hall, as it was called, was six miles
from the city of York, and stood about a mile
from the main road. The only approach to it
was by a long rough lane, so much cut up by
the carts and cattle that it was almost impassable
to foot-passengers, except in the height of summer
or depth of winter, when the mud had been
dried up by the sun or the frost.
</p>

<p>
The father and brothers attended the different
fairs and markets in the ordinary course of business;
their sister, Mary Chambellan, managed
the affairs of the house and dairy. She led a
very secluded life, for they had no neighbors,
and of general society there was none nearer
than the city itself. Mary, however, had plenty
of occupation, and was quite contented with her
lot. She was nearly seventeen, tall, well-formed,
and with an air of composed dignity which suited
well with her position, which was of great responsibility
for so young a person. Her mother,
who had been dead rather more than a year, had
been a woman of superior education and strong
character. To her Mary owed all the instruction
she had ever received, and the tinge of refinement
which made her manners very superior
to those of either her father or brothers. She,
however, was quite unconscious of this, and they
all lived very happily together in the old out-of-the-way
place.
</p>

<p>
It happened that, in the spring of 1745, an
uncle of her mother's, who resided at York, was
about to celebrate the marriage of one of his
daughters; Mary Chambellan, with her father and
brothers, were invited to the festivities. The
father would have sent an excuse for himself and
Mary; he was getting old, and did not like to be
put out of his usual ways. The brothers, however,
pleaded earnestly that their sister might
have a little recreation. Finally consent was
obtained, and she went with her brothers.
</p>

<p>
It was a very fine wedding, and a ball and
supper finished the rejoicings. Some of the officers,
quartered with their regiments in York,
were invited to this ball. Among others was a
certain Captain Henry Pollexfen. He was a
young man of good family in the south of England,
heir to a large fortune; and extremely
handsome and attractive on his own account, independent
of these advantages.
</p>

<p>
He was, by all accounts, a type of the fine,
high-spirited young fellow of those days; good-tempered,
generous, and overflowing with wild
animal life and spirits, which he threw off in a
thousand impetuous extravagances. He could
dance all night at a ball, ride a dozen miles to
meet the hounds the following morning, and, after
a hard day's sport, sit down to a deep carouse,
and be as fresh and gay after it as if he had been
following the precepts of Lewis Cornaro. The
women contended with each other to attract his
attentions; but although he was devoted to every
woman he came near, and responded to their
universal good-will by flirting indefatigably, his
attentions were so indiscriminate, that there was
not one belle who could flatter herself that she
had secured him for her <q>humble servant</q>&mdash;as
lovers were then wont to style themselves. Mary
Chambellan was not, certainly, the belle of the
wedding ball-room, and by no means equal in
fortune or social position to most of the women
present; but whether from perverseness, or caprice,
or love of novelty, Henry Pollexfen was
attracted by her, and devoted himself to her exclusively.
</p>

<p>
The next York Assembly was to take place in
a few days; and this young man, who did not
know what contradiction meant, made Mary
promise to be his partner there. Old Mr. Chambellan,
however, who thought his daughter had
been away from home quite long enough, fetched
her back himself on the following day; and Mary
would as soon have dared to ask to go to the
moon as to remain to go to the assembly. Henry
Pollexfen was extremely disappointed when he
<pb n='352'/><anchor id='Pg352'/>
found that Miss Chambellan had returned home;
but he was too much caressed and sought after
to be able to think long about the matter, and so
his sudden fancy soon passed away.
</p>

<p>
In the autumn of the same year he met one
of her brothers in the hunting field. Accident
threw them together toward the close of a hard
day's run; when, in clearing a stone fence, some
loose stones were dislodged, and struck Captain
Pollexfen's horse, laming him severely. Night
was coming on; it was impossible to return to
his quarters on foot; and young Chambellan invited
his fellow-sportsman to go home with him&mdash;Halsted
Hall being the nearest habitation.
The invitation was accepted. Although old Mr.
Chambellan would as soon have opened his doors
to a dragon; yet even he could find no fault
under the circumstances, and was constrained to
welcome their dangerous guest with old-fashioned
hospitality. He soon became so charmed with
his visitor, that he invited him to return, and the
visitor gladly did so.
</p>

<p>
His almost forgotten admiration for Mary revived
in full force the moment he saw her again.
He soon fell desperately and seriously in love
with her. Mary's strong and gentle character
assumed great influence over his mercurial and
impetuous disposition. That she became deeply
attached to him was nothing wonderful; she
could scarcely have helped it, even if he had not
sought to win her affections.
</p>

<p>
In a short time, he made proposals of marriage
for her to her father, who willingly consented,
feeling, if the truth must be told, very much flattered
at the prospect of such a son-in-law.
</p>

<p>
Henry Pollexfen then wrote a dutiful letter to
his own father, telling him how much he was in
love, and how earnestly he desired permission to
follow his inclinations. Old Mr. Pollexfen had,
like many other fathers, set his heart upon his
son's making a brilliant match; and although,
after consulting the <q>History of Yorkshire,</q>
where he found honorable mention made of the
Chambellan family, he could offer no objection
on the score of birth; yet he thought his son
might do better. He was too wise to make any
direct opposition; on the contrary, he gave his
conditional consent, only stipulating for time.
He required that twelve months should elapse
before the marriage took place, when his son
would be little more than two-and-twenty, while
Mary would be not quite nineteen. He wrote
paternal letters to Mary, and polite epistles to
her father. He even applied at head-quarters
for leave of absence for his son; whom he immediately
summoned up to London, where his
own duties, as member of parliament, would detain
him for some time.
</p>

<p>
Under any other circumstances, Captain Pollexfen
would have been delighted with this arrangement;
but, as it was, he would infinitely
have preferred being allowed to marry Mary at
once. However, there was no help for it. Old
Mr. Chambellan, himself urged the duty of immediate
obedience to his father's summons, and
Pollexfen departed.
</p>

<p>
For many weeks his letters were as frequent
as the post would carry them. He was very
miserable under the separation; and, much as
she loved him, Mary could not wish him to be
otherwise. His regiment was suddenly ordered
abroad; the necessary hurry of preparation, and
the order to join his detachment at Canterbury
without delay, rendered it quite impossible for
Captain Pollexfen to see Mary before his departure.
He wrote her a tender farewell, sent her
his picture, and exhorted her to write frequently,
and never to forget him for an instant; promising,
of course, everlasting constancy for himself.
</p>

<p>
There was little chance that Mary should forget
him, in that old lonely house, without either
friends or neighbors. Besides, the possibility of
ceasing to love her affianced husband never occurred
to her. With Captain Pollexfen it was
different. Under no circumstances was his a
character that would bear absence unchanged;
and the distraction of foreign scenes, and the
excitement of his profession, soon banished the
image of Mary from his mind. At length he felt
it a great bore that he was engaged to be married.
The regiment remained sixteen months
absent, and he heartily hoped that she would
have forgotten him.
</p>

<p>
Mary's father died shortly after her lover's departure;
the family property descended to her
brothers, and she was left entirely dependent
upon them. Captain Pollexfen's letters had entirely
ceased; Mary had received no communication
for more than six months, when she saw
the return of his regiment announced, and his
name gazetted as colonel. He, however, neither
came to see her, nor wrote to her, and Mary became
seriously ill. She could no longer conceal
her sufferings from her brothers. Under the impression
that she was actually dying, they wrote
to her lover, demanding the cause of his silence,
and telling him of her situation. Colonel Pollexfen
was conscience-stricken by this letter. He
declared to the brothers that he intended to act
as became a man of honor, and wrote to Mary
with something of his old affection, revived by
remorse; excusing his past silence, begging forgiveness,
and promising to go down to see her,
the instant he could obtain leave of absence.
</p>

<p>
Under the influence of this letter Mary revived;
but the impression made upon her future husband
soon passed away&mdash;he daily felt less inclination
to perform his promise. He was living in the
midst of fashionable society, and was more courted
than ever, since by the death of his father he
had come into possession of his fortune. He
began to feel that he had decidedly thrown himself
away; and by a most unnatural transition,
he hated Mary for her claims upon him and considered
himself a very ill-used victim.
</p>

<p>
Mary's brothers, finding that Colonel Pollexfen
did not follow his letter, nor show any signs
of fulfilling his engagement, would not submit to
any more trifling. The elder made a journey to
London, and demanded satisfaction, with the intimation
that the younger brother would claim
<pb n='353'/><anchor id='Pg353'/>
the same right when the first affair was terminated.
</p>

<p>
Colonel Pollexfen was not, of course, afraid
of having even two duels on his hands at once;
he had already proved his courage too well to
allow a suspicion of that sort. His answer was
characteristic. He told young Chambellan that
he was quite ready to meet both him and his
brother, but that he was under a previous engagement
to marry their sister, which he wished
to perform first, as otherwise circumstances might
occur to prevent it; he should then be quite at
their service, as it was his intention to quit his
bride at the church-door, and never to see her
again!
</p>

<p>
The brothers, looking upon this as a pretext
to evade the marriage altogether, resolved, after
some deliberation, to accept his proposal. They
had great difficulty in prevailing upon their sister
to agree to their wishes; but they none of them
seriously believed that he would carry out his
threat, and Mary fancied that all danger of a
duel would be evaded. A very liberal settlement
was drawn up by Colonel Pollexfen's direction,
which he signed, and sent down to the bride's
family. On the day appointed, Mary and her
brothers repaired to the church; a traveling chariot
and four horses stood at the door. On entering,
they found Colonel Pollexfen pointing out
to a friend who accompanied him the monuments
belonging to the Chambellan family. As soon
as he perceived them he took his place at the
altar, and the ceremony commenced without delay.
As soon as it was concluded, he bowed
with great politeness to all present, and said,
<q>You are all here witnesses that I have performed
my engagement!</q> Then, without even
looking at his bride, he quitted the church, and,
accompanied by his friend, entered the carriage
which was in waiting, and drove rapidly away!
Mary was carried senseless from the church,
and for several weeks continued dangerously
ill.
</p>

<p>
The real strength of her character now showed
itself. She made no complaint; she did not even
assume her husband's name, but took the appellation
of Mrs. Chambellan. The settlement was
returned to Colonel Pollexfen's lawyer, with an
intimation that it would never be claimed. She
stilled the anger of her brothers, and would not endure
a word to be said against her husband. She
never alluded to him herself. A great change
came over her; she did not seem to suffer nearly
so much from her cruel position as might have
been expected; her melancholy and depression
gave place to a steady determination of purpose.
In the brief space during which she and her husband
had stood before the altar, she had realized
the distance that existed between their positions
in life. With a rare superiority, she understood
how natural it was that he should have felt no
desire to fulfill his boyish engagement; she owned
in her heart that she was not fitted to be the
wife and companion of such a man as he had now
become. Had she seen all this sooner, she would
have at once released him; now she could no
longer do so, and she resolved to fit herself to fill
the station to which, as his wife, she had been
raised.
</p>

<p>
The brief interview before the altar had stimulated
to desperation her attachment to him: and
she felt that she must win him back or die.
Mary had received very little education. In those
days the education bestowed on most women was
very limited; but Mary fancied that all gentlewomen,
who moved in society, were well-informed;
and her first step was to obtain some elementary
books from the master of a boy's school
at York, and begin, with undoubting simplicity,
to learn history and geography, and all the things
which she supposed every lady of her husband's
acquaintance knew. A thirst for information was
soon aroused in her; she had few advantages and
very little assistance; but her energies and perseverance
surmounted all obstacles, and she found
a present reward in her labor. Her life ceased
to seem either lonely or monotonous. Still, the
spirit that worked within her was far more precious
than any actual result she obtained. She
had a noble object in view; and, unconsciously
to herself, it purified her heart from all bitterness,
or wounded vanity, or impatience. A great
sorrow nobly borne, is a great dignity. The very
insult which had seemed to condemn her to a
wasted existence, was transformed into a source
of life and fruitfulness, by the wise humility with
which she accepted it.
</p>

<p>
Ten years passed thus, and in the matured
woman of thirty, few could have recognized the
forsaken girl of nineteen. But the present only
fulfilled the promise which was then latent in her
character.
</p>

<p>
All this time her husband had endeavored to
forget that he was married. Shortly after the
ceremony, he went abroad with his regiment;
and after some time spent in active service, he
returned to England, and quitted the army with
the brevet rank of general. He resided partly
in London and partly in Bath, leading the usual
life of a man of fashion in those days, and making
himself remarkable for his brilliant extravagances.
</p>

<p>
About that time a young and beautiful actress
appeared, who speedily became the object of
adoration to all the young men of fashion about
town.
</p>

<p>
General Pollexfen was one of her lovers, and
carried her off one night from the theatre, when
she came off the stage between the acts. He
allowed her to assume his name, and lavished a
fortune upon her caprices; although her extravagance
and propensity to gambling involved him
in debt.
</p>

<p>
Ten years had thus passed, when the cousin,
whose marriage was mentioned at the beginning
of this story, was ordered to Bath by her physician.
She entreated Mary to accompany her,
who, after some persuasion, consented. It was
a formidable journey in those days, and they were
to stay some months. They found a pleasant
lodging. Mary, with some reluctance, was drawn
into society, and occasionally accompanied her
<pb n='354'/><anchor id='Pg354'/>
cousin to the Assemblies, which were then in
high vogue.
</p>

<p>
General Pollexfen was absent from Bath when
his wife arrived there. He had been called up
to London by some lawyer's business, and calculated
upon being absent three weeks.
</p>

<p>
It so chanced, however, that the business was
concluded sooner than he expected, and that
he returned to Bath without announcing his
coming. He went at once to the Assembly, and
was walking through the rooms in a chafed and
irritable mood (having that night discovered the
treachery of the beautiful actress, which had long
been known to every body else), when a voice
struck his ear which caused him to turn suddenly.
He saw, near at hand, a dignified and
beautiful woman, who reminded him of some one
he had seen before. She turned away on perceiving
him&mdash;it was Mary. She had recognized
her husband, and, scarcely able to stand, she took
the arm of her cousin, and reached the nearest
seat. Her husband, forgetting every thing else
in his impatience to learn who it was who had
thus startled vague recollections, went hastily up
to the Master of the Ceremonies, and desired to
be introduced to&mdash;his own wife!
</p>

<p>
By some fatality, the Master of the Ceremonies
blundered, and gave the name of Mary's cousin.
This mistake gave Mary courage; for years she
had dreamed of such a meeting, and the fear of
losing the opportunity nerved her to profit by it.
She exerted herself to please him. He had been
rudely disenchanted from the graces of fine ladies,
and was in a humor to appreciate the gentle home
influence of Mary's manners; he was enchanted
with her, and begged to be allowed to follow up
the acquaintance, and to wait upon her the next
morning. Permission was of course given, and
he handed Mary and her cousin to their chairs.
</p>

<p>
Mary was cruelly agitated; she had not suffered
so much during the ten preceding years;
the suspense and anxiety were too terrible to endure;
it seemed as though morning would never
come. Her husband was not much more to be
envied. He had discovered that she resembled
the woman he had once so much loved, and then
so cruelly hated&mdash;whom he married, and deserted;
but though tormented by a thousand fancied
resemblances, he scarcely dared to hope that it
could be she. The next day, long before the lawful
hour for paying morning visits, he was before
her door and obtained admittance. The resemblance
by daylight was more striking than it had
been on the previous evening; and Mary's agitation
was equal to his own. His impetuous appeal
was answered. Overwhelmed with shame and
repentance, and at the same time happy beyond
expression, General Pollexfen passionately entreated
his wife's forgiveness. Mary not only
won back her husband, but regained, with a
thousandfold intensity, the love which had once
been hers&mdash;regained it, never to lose it more!
</p>

<p>
The story soon became known, and created an
immense sensation. They quitted Bath, and retired
to her husband's family seat in Cornwall,
where they continued chiefly to reside. They
had one son, an only child, who died when he
was about fifteen. It was an overwhelming affliction,
and was the one mortal shadow on their
happiness. They died within a few weeks of each
other; their honors and estates passing to a distant
branch of the family.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Ass Of La Marca.</head>

<p>
I. The Hog-Boy.
</p>

<p>
In the year 1530, a Franciscan was traveling
on foot in the papal territory of Ancona. He
was proceeding to Ascoli; but, at that time, the
roads were bad, where there were any roads at
all, and after wandering in what appeared to be
a wilderness, he lost his bearings altogether, and
came to a stand-still. A village was visible in
the distance, but he was unwilling to proceed so
far to ask his way, lest it might prove to be in
the wrong direction. While listening intently,
however, for some sound that might indicate the
propinquity of human beings&mdash;for the scrubby
wood of the waste, marshy land intercepted his
view&mdash;he heard what appeared to be a succession
of low sobs close by. Mounting a little eminence
a few paces off, he saw a small company of hogs
widely scattered, and searching with the avidity
of famine for a dinner; and rightly conjecturing
that the sounds of human grief must proceed from
the swineherd, he moved on to the nearest clump
of bushes, where he saw on the other side a boy
about nine years of age, lying upon the soft
ground, and endeavoring to smother his sobs in a
tuft of coarse moss, while he dug his fingers into
the mud in an agony of grief and rage. The good
father allowed the storm of emotion to sweep past,
and then inquired what was the matter.
</p>

<p>
<q>Have you lost any of your hogs?</q> said he.
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't know&mdash;and I don't care,</q> was the
answer.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why were you crying then?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Because they have been using me worse than
a hog: they have been beating me&mdash;they never let
me alone; always bad names, and worse blows;
nothing to eat but leavings, and nothing to lie
upon but dirty straw!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And for what offense are you used thus?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>They say I am unhandy at field-work; that
I am useless in the house and the barn; that I
am unfit to be a servant to the horses in the stable;
and that I can't even keep the hogs together.
They are hogs themselves&mdash;they be! I was
clever enough at home; but my father could not
keep me any longer, and so he sent me to be a
farmer's drudge, and turned me out to the&mdash;the&mdash;hogs!</q>
and the boy gave way to another passionate
burst of grief. The Franciscan endeavored
to soothe him, and talked of submission to
Providence; but finding he could do no good he
inquired the name of the village.
</p>

<p>
<q>Montalto,</q> replied the boy, sulkily.
</p>

<p>
<q>Montalto? Then in what direction lies Ascoli?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Are you going to Ascoli?</q> demanded the
hog-boy, suddenly, as he fixed a pair of blazing
eyes on the Franciscan's face in a manner that
made him start. <q>I will show you the way,</q>
<pb n='355'/><anchor id='Pg355'/>
continued he, in a tone of as much decision as if
he spoke of some mighty enterprise; and leaping
to his feet like a boy made of India-rubber, he led
through the scrubby wood of the common, kicking
the hogs aside with a fierceness that drew a
remonstrance from the good father. This seemed
to have the desired effect. His manner softened
instantaneously. He spoke in a mild, low voice;
answered the questions that were addressed to
him with modesty and good-sense; and astonished
the Franciscan by a display of intelligence
rare enough even where natural abilities are developed
by education. It was in vain, however,
that he reminded his young companion that it
was time for him to turn; the hog-boy seemed
fascinated by the father's conversation, and always
made some excuse for accompanying him
a little further.
</p>

<p>
<q>Come, my son,</q> said the Franciscan at length,
<q>this must have an end, and here we part. There
is a little trifle which I give you with my blessing,
and so God speed you!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I am going further,</q> replied the boy, quickly.
</p>

<p>
<q>What! to Ascoli?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ay, to Ascoli&mdash;or to the end of the earth!
Ah, father, if you would but get me something
to do&mdash;for I am sure you can if you will; any
drudgery, however humble&mdash;any thing in the
world but tending hogs!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You forget my profession, my son, and that
I am powerless out of it. You would not become
a monk yourself?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A monk! Oh! wouldn't I? Only try
me!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>To be a monk is to toil, watch, and pray; to
live meagrely, to submit to innumerable hardships&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And to learn, father! to read&mdash;to think! O,
what would I not submit to for the sake of knowing
what there is in books!</q> The boy spoke
with enthusiasm, and yet with nothing of the
coarse impetuosity which had at first almost terrified
his new acquaintance. The Franciscan
thought he beheld in him the elements of a character
well adapted for a religious order; and after
some further conversation, he finally consented
to take the stripling with him to Ascoli. They
were now at the summit of an eminence whence
they saw that town lying before them, and the
village of Montalto hardly discernible in the distance
behind. The father looked back for a moment
at his companion, in some curiosity to see
how he would take leave, probably forever, of the
place of his birth. The hog-boy's hands were
clenched as if the nails were imbedded in his
flesh; and one arm, trembling with agitation,
was stretched forth in a fierce farewell. When
he turned away, the blazing eyes again flashed
upon the Franciscan's face; but, in an instant,
they softened, grew mild and tearful, and Felix&mdash;for
that was the lad's name&mdash;followed his patron
meekly into the town.
</p>

<p>
Their destination was a monastery of Cordeliers,
where the ex-hog-boy was introduced to the
superior, and pleased him so much by his sensible
answers and modest demeanor, that he at once
received the habit of a lay-brother, and was set
to assist the sacristan in sweeping the church and
lighting the candles. But at leisure hours he
was still busier with the dust of the schools, and
the lamp of theology. The brethren taught him
the responses and grammar; but he never ceased
to teach himself every thing he could get at; so
that in the year 1534, when he was only fourteen,
he was permitted to enter on his novitiate, and
after the usual probation, to make his profession.
He was, in short, a monk; and in ten years he
had taken deacon's orders, been ordained a priest,
and graduated as bachelor and doctor. Felix the
hog-boy was now known as Father Montalto.
</p>

<p>
II. The Assistant.
</p>

<p>
The world was now before the Ancona hog-boy.
In his boyhood he had suffered stripes and
starvation, herded unclean animals, and almost
broken his heart with impotent, and, therefore,
secret rage. In his youth he had been the patient
drudge of a convent, and passed his leisure
hours in persevering study, and the accumulation
of book-knowledge. But now he was a man,
ready for his destiny, and in the midst of troublous
times, when a bold, fierce, and fearless
character is sure to make its way. No more
secret sobs&mdash;no more cringing servility&mdash;no more
studious solitude. Montalto threw himself into
the vortex of the world, and struck out boldly,
right and left. An impetuous and impatient temper,
and haughty and dictatorial manner, were
now his prominent characteristics; and these,
united as they were with natural talent and solid
acquirements, soon pointed him out for congenial
employment. The rising monk was seen and
understood by the Cardinals Carpi and Alexandrino;
and by the latter he was appointed Inquisitor-general
at Venice. Here was fortune for
the poor trampled boy of Ancona! But to rest
there was not his purpose. A little of the tranquillity
he knew so well how to assume, or even
the mere abstinence from violence and insult,
would have retained him in his post; but, instead
of this he became harsh, stern, and peremptory
to a degree that outraged every body who came
near him, and carried out the measures he determined
on with an arbitrary vehemence that
bordered on frenzy. The jealous republicans
were astonished, but not terrified: the liberties
of their strange tyranny were at stake: and, at
length, the Venetian magnates rose like one man,
and Father Montalto only escaped personal violence
by flight. And so he was a martyr to the
cause of the church! And so all eyes were
drawn upon him, as a man ready in action, and
inflexible in will. He was now invited by the
Cardinal Buon-Campagno to accompany him to
Madrid as his chaplain and inquisitorial adviser,
the cardinal being sent thither as legate from the
Pope to his Catholic majesty. Montalto's was an
office both of power and dignity, and he acquitted
himself in it so zealously, that on the legate's
recall he was offered all sorts of ecclesiastical
honors and preferment to induce him to settle in
Spain. But the monk had other aspirations.
The news of the death of Pius IV. had reached
<pb n='356'/><anchor id='Pg356'/>
Madrid, and Montalto's patron, Cardinal Alexandrino,
would doubtless succeed to the papal
throne. He would want assistance, and, what
is more, he could repay it; and Father Montalto,
rejecting the Spanish offers, hastened to Rome.
He found his friend, now Pius V., mindful of his
former services, and perhaps flattered by the reputation
which his protégé had made in the world.
He was kindly received, and immediately appointed
general of his order.
</p>

<p>
And now the <foreign rend='italic'>ci-devant</foreign> hog-boy set to sweep
the church anew, but in a different way. He no
longer troubled himself with theological controversies,
but punished his contumacious opponents.
In four years after the accession of the
new Pope he was made a bishop, and handsomely
pensioned; and in the year 1570 our adventurer
was admitted into the College of Cardinals.
</p>

<p>
Montalto was now fifty years of age, when the
will is at its proudest, and the intellectual nature
smiles at the changing hair and its prophecies of
physical decay. It might be supposed that the
fierce inquisitor ripened into the stern and inflexible
cardinal; but no such process of development
took place. And truly it would have been
somewhat inconvenient as matters stood; for his
new associates&mdash;ranking with kings, every man
of them, hog-boy and all!&mdash;were the intellectual
flower of the time, deep and sagacious statesmen,
immersed in a game of policy of which the tiara
was the prize, and qualified for the lofty contention
not more by their talents than by the blood
of the Medici, the Caraffa, the Colonna, and the
Frangipani, that flowed in their veins. The wild
nature of Montalto appeared to be awed by the
association into which he had thus been elevated.
It seemed as if a vision of his stripes, and his
hogs, and his besoms came back upon him, and
he walked gingerly along the marble floors of the
Vatican, as if alarmed at the echo. He became
mild, affable, good-natured; his business was
over in the world; he had nothing more to do
than to enjoy. Why should he concern himself
with intrigues in which he could have no possible
interest? Why should he permit even his own
family to disturb his dignified repose? One of his
nephews, on his way to Rome to see his prodigious
uncle and claim his favor, was murdered;
but the cardinal, so ready in former days to punish
even crimes of thought, interceded for the pardon
of the assassin. The relatives who did arrive
at the Mecca of their pilgrimage he lodged
at an inn, and sent them home to their families
the next day with a small present, telling them
to trouble him no more. The only promise he
made for the future was that, by-and-by, when
old age and its infirmities came on, he might,
perhaps, send for one of them to nurse his declining
years.
</p>

<p>
Time wore on, and his patron, Pope Pius V.,
died, and was buried. This was a trouble as
well as a grief to our cardinal; for, being obliged
to enter the conclave like the rest, he was asked
by one and another for his vote. How should he
vote? He did not know whom to vote for. He
was an obscure and insignificant man&mdash;he was;
and the rest were all so admirably well-fitted to
be Pope, that he could not tell the difference.
Besides, this was the first conclave he had been
in, and in a path so much loftier than he was
accustomed to tread, he was afraid of making a
false step. He only wished he could vote for
them all; but, as it was, he entreated them to
manage the affair without him. And so they
did; and Cardinal Buon-Campagno being elected,
assumed the papal crown and the name of Gregory
XIII.
</p>

<p>
As for Montalto, he grew more meek, modest,
and humble every day. He lived frugally, even
meanly, considering his rank, and gave the residue
of his income to the poor. He submitted
patiently to all sorts of insults and injuries, and
not only forgave his enemies, but treated them
with the utmost tenderness. At this time a
change appeared to take place in his health.
Violent internal pains destroyed his repose; and,
although he consulted all the doctors in Rome,
and took physic from them all, he got no better.
His disease was not the less lamentable that it
was nameless. He grew thin and pale. Some said
he took too much medicine. He leaned heavily
on his staff. His body was bent toward the
ground: he seemed like a man who was looking
for his grave. Public prayers were offered up in
the churches for his recovery: and sometimes
with so much effect, that he appeared to be a little
convalescent. At such intervals, being humble
himself, he delighted to converse with humble
persons&mdash;such as the domestics of cardinals and
embassadors; and, above all things, auricular
confession, if it had not been the sick man's duty,
would have been called his hobby. He confessed
every body he could bring to his knees: his mind
became a sink through which constantly poured
all the iniquities of Rome. His brother cardinals
smiled at these weaknesses. The poor man was
doubtless sinking into premature dotage. They
gave him in ridicule a name, taken from the muddy
wastes of Ancona, in the midst of which he
had been picked up by the stray Franciscan: they
called him <hi rend='smallcaps'>The Ass of La Marca.</hi>
</p>

<p>
III. The Pope.
</p>

<p>
Time wore on in this way, till at length Gregory
XIII. died. The event took place at a perplexing
moment, for never had the College of
Cardinals been so completely torn asunder by
conflicting interests. There were three powerful
parties so singularly well-balanced, that each
felt sure of being able to elect the new Pope, and
the poor Ass of La Marca, who was once more
obliged to join the conclave, was half-distracted
with their various claims. All they cared about
was his vote; but that was important. They
were compelled, however, by tradition, to go
through the form of consulting him from time to
time; and the cardinal, though never giving way
to impatience, was pathetic in his entreaties to
be let alone. According to the custom of this
solemn council, each member of the holy college
was shut up in a separate room; and the messengers
always found Montalto's door bolted.
He would reply to their eminences, he said, the
<pb n='357'/><anchor id='Pg357'/>
moment his cough abated, the moment he felt
any intermission of his excruciating pains. But
why could they not proceed to business without
him? The opinions of so insignificant a person
could not at any time be necessary; but, surely,
it was inhuman to disturb a man fast sinking under
disease, and whose thoughts were fixed upon
that world to which he was hastening. The conclave
sat fourteen days, and even then the votes
of the three parties were equally divided. What
was to be done? The best way was to have a
nominal Pope, for the shortest possible time, so
that the struggle of the real competitors might
begin anew. They accordingly elected unanimously
to the papal throne&mdash;the Ass of La
Marca!
</p>

<p>
On this announcement the new monarch came
instantly forth from his cell, leaving behind him
his staff, his cough, his stoop, his pains, his infirmities,
and his humility! He advanced with
an erect figure, and a firm and dignified step into
the midst of the conclave, and thanked their eminences
for the honor they had conferred upon
him, which he would endeavor to merit by discharging
its high functions conscientiously. As
he passed from the sacred council the <foreign rend='italic'>vivas</foreign> of the
people rent the air. <q>Long live the Pope!</q> they
cried: <q>justice, plenty, and large loaves!</q> <q>Address
yourselves to God for plenty,</q> was the answer:
<q><hi rend='italic'>I will give you justice.</hi></q>
</p>

<p>
And he kept his word: ready, stern, severe,
inflexible, impartial justice! He was impatient
to see the triple crown; and before preparations
could be made for his coronation, he caused the
bauble to be produced, and placed on a velvet
cushion in the room where he sat. The bauble?
It was no bauble to him. It was the symbol of
Power, just as he was himself the personification
of Will. It was the thought which had governed
his whole life&mdash;which had blazed even in the unconscious
eyes of his boyhood. With what memories
was that long gaze filled&mdash;with what resolves.
The room was crowded with spectres of
the past, and visions of the future, that met and
blended in one homogeneous character; and as
Pope Sixtus V. rose from his chair, he felt proudly
that there rose with him&mdash;within him&mdash;throughout
him&mdash;the hog-boy of Montalto.
</p>

<p>
The dissimulation which was so remarkable a
trait in this remarkable character was now at an
end, and only the fierceness, sternness, and indomitable
will of the man remained. He felt
himself to be placed on a height from which
every thing beneath him appeared on one level.
The cardinals, with their ancient blood and accomplished
statesmanship, were no more to him
than the meanest drudges in his dominions; and
when they first attempted remonstrate at his proceedings,
he answered them with such withering
disdain, that the proudest of them quailed beneath
his eye. He told them distinctly that he was not
only their spiritual head but their temporal king,
and that in neither capacity would he brook any
interference with his authority. It was the
custom, on the accession of a pope, for the prisoners
to be manumitted in all the jails of Rome;
and the consequence of this equivocal mercy
was, that these places of durance were always
full at such a time&mdash;the whole villainy of the
city taking the opportunity of committing murders,
robberies, and other great crimes that would
be cheaply visited by a brief imprisonment.
When Sixtus was asked, as a matter of form,
for his sanction to the discharge of the prisoners,
he peremptorily refused it. In vain the members
of the holy college, in vain the civic authorities,
implored him not to set tradition at defiance: he
ordered for instant execution those legally deserving
of death, and in the case of the others,
did not abate a single day of their confinement.
Even the respect paid to his own person by the
populace became a crime, since it interfered with
his designs. The perpetual <foreign rend='italic'>vivas</foreign> with which he
was greeted made his whereabout so public that
he could not come unawares into any suspected
place, and he issued an order forbidding such
demonstrations. One day, however, two citizens
were so enthusiastic in their loyalty that they
could not repress the cry of <q>Long live the
Pope!</q> which rose to their lips; whereupon the
offenders were instantly laid hold of by the orders
of Sixtus, and received a hearty flogging.
</p>

<p>
This <foreign rend='italic'>parvenu</foreign> pope treated with other monarchs
with the unbending dignity which might have
been looked for in the descendant of a line of
kings; and in some cases&mdash;more especially that of
Spain&mdash;he exhibited the uncompromising sternness
of his character. But where the interest
of his policy was not involved&mdash;where the actors
in the drama of life moved in circles that had no
contact with his&mdash;he admired with all his impulsive
soul a masculine and independent spirit.
So far did he carry his admiration of our Protestant
Queen Elizabeth, who was his contemporary,
that one might almost fancy the solitary
monk day-dreaming of those times when even
popes were permitted a mortal bride. He is
said to have given her secret intimation of the
approaching Armada of his Catholic majesty;
and when the head of the Catholic Queen of
Scotland rolled under the ax of the executioner,
he is described as having emitted an exclamation
of fierce and exulting applause at this memorable
exhibition of will and power.
</p>

<p>
And so Sixtus lived, and reigned, and died&mdash;a
stern, strong spirit of his day and generation,
leaving a broad trail in history, and a lasting
monument in the architectural stones of Rome.
In the biography of common men, who are swayed
by changing currents of passion and circumstance,
it would be vain to attempt to explain actions and
reconcile inconsistencies, as we have done here,
by viewing all their doings, and all the phases
of their character, with reference to a leading
principle. But Sixtus was governed from his
birth by one great thought, though fully developed
only by the force of events&mdash;a thought as obvious
in the hog-boy of Ancona, or the drudge of the
Cordeliers, as in the monk Montalto, the inquisitor,
the cardinal, and the pope.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='358'/><anchor id='Pg358'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Legend Of The Weeping
Chamber.</head>

<p>
A strange story was once told me by a
Levantine lady of my acquaintance, which
I shall endeavor to relate&mdash;as far as I am able
with the necessary abridgments&mdash;in her own
words. The circumstances under which she
told it were peculiar. The family had just been
disturbed by the visit of a ghost&mdash;a real ghost,
visible, if not palpable. She was not what may
be called superstitious; and though following
with more or less assiduity the practices of her
religion, was afflicted now and then with a fit of
perfect materialism. I was surprised, therefore,
to hear her relate, with every appearance of profound
faith, the following incidents:
</p>

<p>
There is an old house in Beyrout, which, for
many successive years, was inhabited by a Christian
family. It is of great extent, and was of
yore fitted for the dwelling of a prince. The
family had, indeed, in early times been very rich;
and almost fabulous accounts are current of the
wealth of its founder, Fadlallah Dahân. He was
a merchant; the owner of ships, the fitter-out of
caravans. The regions of the East and of the
West had been visited by him; and, after undergoing
as many dangers and adventures as Sinbad,
he had returned to spend the latter days of his
life in his native city. He built, accordingly, a
magnificent dwelling, the courts of which he
adorned with marble fountains, and the chambers
with silk divans; and he was envied on account
of his prosperity.
</p>

<p>
But, in the restlessness of his early years, he
had omitted to marry, and now found himself
near the close of his career without an heir to
inherit his wealth and to perpetuate his name.
This reflection often disturbed him; yet he was
unwilling to take a wife because he was old.
Every now and then, it is true, he saw men older
than he, with fewer teeth and whiter beards,
taking to their bosoms maidens that bloomed
like peaches just beginning to ripen against a
wall; and his friends, who knew he would give
a magnificent marriage-feast, urged him to do
likewise. Once he looked with pleasure on a
young person of not too tender years, whose
parents purposely presented her to him; but having
asked her in a whisper whether she would
like to marry a withered old gentleman like himself,
she frankly confessed a preference for his
handsome young clerk, Harma, who earned a
hundred piastres a month. Fadlallah laughed
philosophically, and took care that the young
couple should be married under happy auspices.
</p>

<p>
One day he was proceeding along the street
gravely and slowly&mdash;surrounded by a number of
merchants proud to walk by his side, and followed
by two or three young men, who pressed near in
order to be thought of the company, and thus
establish their credit&mdash;when an old woman espying
him, began to cry out, <q>Yeh! yeh! this is
the man who has no wife and no child&mdash;this is
the man who is going to die and leave his fortune
to be robbed by his servants, or confiscated by
the governor! And yet, he has a sagacious
nose</q>&mdash;(the Orientals have observed that there
is wisdom in a nose)&mdash;<q>and a beard as long as
my back! Yeh! yeh! what a wonderful sight
to see!</q>
</p>

<p>
Fadlallah Dahân stopped, and retorted, smiling,
<q>Yeh! yeh! this is the woman that blames an
old man for not marrying a young wife. Yeh!
yeh! what a wonderful sight to see!</q>
</p>

<p>
Then the woman replied, <q>O, my lord, every
pig's tail curls not in the same direction, nor does
every maiden admire the passing quality of youth.
If thou wilt, I will bestow on thee a wife, who
will love thee as thou lovest thyself, and serve
thee as the angels serve Allah. She is more
beautiful than any of the daughters of Beyrout,
and her name is Selima, a name of good augury.</q>
</p>

<p>
The friends of Fadlallah laughed, as did the
young men who followed in their wake, and
urged him to go and see this peerless beauty, if
it were only for a joke. Accordingly, he told
the woman to lead the way. But she said he
must mount his mule, for they had to go some
distance into the country. He mounted and,
with a single servant, went forth from the gates&mdash;the
woman preceding&mdash;and rode until he reached
a village in the mountains. Here, in a poor
little house, he found Selima; clothed in the very
commonest style, engaged in making divan cushions.
She was a marvelously beautiful girl, and
the heart of the merchant at once began to yearn
toward her: yet he endeavored to restrain himself,
and said, <q>This beautiful thing is not for
me.</q> But the woman cried out, <q>Selima, wilt
thou consent to love this old man?</q> The girl
gazed in his face a while, and then, folding her
hands across her bosom, said, <q>Yes; for there is
goodness in his countenance.</q> Fadlallah wept
with joy; and, returning to the city, announced
his approaching marriage to his friends. According
to custom, they expressed civil surprise to his
face; but, when his back was turned, they whispered
that he was an old fool, and had been the
dupe of a she-adventurer.
</p>

<p>
The marriage took place with ceremonies of
royal magnificence; and Selima, who passed unmoved
from extreme poverty to abundant riches,
seemed to merit the position of the greatest lady
in Beyrout. Never was woman more prudent
than she. No one ever knew her previous history,
nor that of her mother. Some said that a
life of misery, perhaps of shame, was before them,
when this unexpected marriage took place. Selima's
gratitude to Fadlallah was unbounded; and
out of gratitude grew love. The merchant daily
offered up thanks for the bright diamond which
had come to shine in his house.
</p>

<p>
In due time a child was born; a boy lovely as
his mother; and they named him Halil. With
what joy he was received, what festivities announced
the glad intelligence to the town, may
easily be imagined. Selima and Fadlallah resolved
to devote themselves to his education, and
determined that he should be the most accomplished
youth of Bar-er-Shâm. But a long succession
of children followed, each more beautiful
<pb n='359'/><anchor id='Pg359'/>
than the former&mdash;some boys, some girls; and
every new-comer was received with additional
delight and still grander ceremonies; so that the
people began to say, <q>Is this a race of sovereigns?</q>
</p>

<p>
Now Halil grew up to the age of twelve&mdash;still
a charming lad; but the parents, always fully
occupied by the last arrival, had not carried out
their project of education. He was as wild and
untamed as a colt, and spent more of his time in
the street than in the company of his mother;
who, by degrees, began to look upon him with a
kind of calm friendship due to strangers. Fadlallah,
as he took his accustomed walk with his
merchant friends, used from time to time to encounter
a ragged boy fighting in the streets with
the sons of the Jew butcher; but his eyes beginning
to grow dim, he often passed without recognizing
him. One day, however, Halil, breathless
and bleeding, ran up and took refuge beneath the
skirts of his mantle from a crowd of savage urchins.
Fadlallah was amazed, and said, <q>O, my
son&mdash;for I think thou art my son&mdash;what evil hath
befallen thee, and wherefore do I see thee in this
state?</q> The boy, whose voice was choked by
sobs, looked up into his face, and said, <q>Father,
I am the son of the richest merchant of Beyrout,
and behold, there is no one so little cared for
as I.</q>
</p>

<p>
Fadlallah's conscience smote him, and he wiped
the boy's bleeding face with the corner of his silk
caftan, and blessed him; and, taking him by the
hand, led him away. The merchants smiled benignly
one to the other, and, pointing with their
thumbs, said, <q>We have seen the model youth!</q>
</p>

<p>
While they laughed and sneered, Fadlallah,
humbled, yet resolved, returned to his house,
leading the ragged Halil, and entered his wife's
chamber. Selima was playing with her seventh
child, and teaching it to lisp the word <q>Baba</q>&mdash;about
the amount of education which she had
found time to bestow on each of her offspring.
When she saw the plight of her eldest son she
frowned, and was about to scold him; but Fadlallah
interposed, and said, <q>Wife, speak no harsh
words. We have not done our duty by this boy.
May God forgive us; but we have looked on those
children that have bloomed from thee, more as
play-things than as deposits for which we are
responsible. Halil has become a wild out-of-door
lad, doubting with some reason of our love.
It is too late to bring him back to the destiny we
had dreamt of; but he must not be left to grow
up thus uncared for. I have a brother established
in Bassora; to him will I send the lad to learn
the arts of commerce, and to exercise himself in
adventure, as his father did before him. Bestow
thy blessing upon him, Selima (here the good old
man's voice trembled), and may God in his mercy
forgive both thee and me for the neglect which
has made this parting necessary. I shall know
that I am forgiven if, before I go down into the
tomb, my son return a wise and sober man; not
unmindful that we gave him life, and forgetting
that, until now, we have given him little else.</q>
</p>

<p>
Selima laid her seventh child in its cradle of
carved wood, and drew Halil to her bosom; and
Fadlallah knew that she loved him still, because
she kissed his face, regardless of the blood and
dirt that stained it. She then washed him and
dressed him, and gave him a purse of gold, and
handed him over to his father; who had resolved
to send him off by the caravan that started that
very afternoon. Halil, surprised and made happy
by unwonted caresses, was yet delighted at the
idea of beginning an adventurous life; and went
away, manfully stifling his sobs, and endeavoring
to assume the grave deportment of a merchant.
Selima shed a few tears, and then, attracted by
a crow and a chuckle from the cradle, began to
tickle the infant's soft double chin, and went on
with her interrupted lesson, <q>Baba, Baba!</q>
</p>

<p>
Halil started on his journey, and having passed
through the Valley of Robbers, the Valley of
Lions, and the Valley of Devils&mdash;this is the way
in which Orientals localize the supposed dangers
of traveling&mdash;arrived at the good city of Bassora;
where his uncle received him well, and promised
to send him as supercargo on board the next vessel
he dispatched to the Indian seas. What time
was spent by the caravan upon the road, the narrative
does not state. Traveling is slow work
in the East; but almost immediately on his arrival
in Bassora, Halil was engaged in a love adventure.
If traveling is slow, the approaches of
manhood are rapid. The youth's curiosity was
excited by the extraordinary care taken to conceal
his cousin Miriam from his sight; and having
introduced himself into her garden, beheld,
and, struck by her wonderful beauty, loved her.
With an Oriental fondness, he confessed the truth
to his uncle, who listened with anger and dismay,
and told him that Miriam was betrothed to the
Sultan. Halil perceived the danger of indulging
his passion, and promised to suppress it; but
while he played a prudent part, Miriam's curiosity
was also excited, and she, too, beheld and
loved her cousin. Bolts and bars can not keep
two such affections asunder. They met and
plighted their troth, and were married secretly,
and were happy. But inevitable discovery came.
Miriam was thrown into a dungeon; and the unhappy
Halil, loaded with chains, was put on board
a vessel, not as supercargo, but as prisoner; with
orders that he should be left in some distant
country.
</p>

<p>
Meanwhile a dreadful pestilence fell upon
Beyrout, and among the first sufferers was an
eighth little one, that had just learned to say
<q>Baba!</q> Selima was almost too astonished to
be grieved. It seemed to her impossible that
death should come into her house, and meddle
with the fruits of so much suffering and love.
When they came to take away the little form
which she had so often fondled, her indignation
burst forth, and she smote the first old woman
who stretched out her rough unsympathetic hand.
But a shriek from her waiting-woman announced
that another victim was singled out; and the
frantic mother rushed like a tigress to defend the
young that yet remained to her. But the enemy
was invisible; and (so the story goes) all her
<pb n='360'/><anchor id='Pg360'/>
little ones drooped one by one and died; so that
on the seventh day Selima sat in her nursery
gazing about with stony eyes, and counting
her losses upon her fingers&mdash;Iskender, Selima,
Wardy, Fadlallah, Hanna, Hennenah, Gereges&mdash;seven
in all. Then she remembered Halil, and
her neglect of him; and, lifting up her voice,
she wept aloud; and, as the tears rushed fast
and hot down her cheeks, her heart yearned for
her absent boy, and she would have parted with
worlds to have fallen upon his breast&mdash;would
have given up her life in return for one word of
pardon and of love.
</p>

<p>
Fadlallah came in to her; and he was now
very old and feeble. His back was bent, and his
transparent hand trembled as it clutched a cane.
A white beard surrounded a still whiter face;
and as he came near his wife, he held out his
hand toward her with an uncertain gesture, as
if the room had been dark. This world appeared
to him but dimly. <q>Selima,</q> said he, <q>the
Giver hath taken. We, too, must go in our
turn. Weep, my love; but weep with moderation,
for those little ones that have gone to sing
in the golden cages of Paradise. There is a
heavier sorrow in my heart. Since my first-born,
Halil, departed for Bassora, I have only
written once to learn intelligence of him. He
was then well, and had been received with favor
by his uncle. We have never done our duty by
that boy.</q> His wife replied, <q>Do not reproach
me; for I reproach myself more bitterly than
thou canst do. Write, then, to thy brother to
obtain tidings of the beloved one. I will make
of this chamber a weeping chamber. It has resounded
with merriment enough. All my children
learned to laugh and to talk here. I will
hang it with black, and erect a tomb in the midst;
and every day I will come and spend two hours,
and weep for those who are gone and for him
who is absent.</q> Fadlallah approved her design;
and they made a weeping chamber, and lamented
together every day therein. But their letters to
Bassora remained unanswered; and they began
to believe that fate had chosen a solitary tomb
for Halil.
</p>

<p>
One day a woman, dressed in the garb of the
poor, came to the house of Fadlallah with a boy
about twelve years old. When the merchant
saw them he was struck with amazement, for he
beheld in the boy the likeness of his son Halil;
and he called aloud to Selima, who, when she
came, shrieked with amazement. The woman
told her story, and it appeared that she was
Miriam. Having spent some months in prison,
she had escaped and taken refuge in a forest in
the house of her nurse. Here she had given birth
to a son, whom she had called by his father's
name. When her strength returned, she had
set out as a beggar to travel over the world in
search of her lost husband. Marvelous were the
adventures she underwent, God protecting her
throughout, until she came to the land of Persia,
where she found Halil working as a slave in the
garden of the Governor of Fars. After a few
stolen interviews, she had again resumed her
wanderings to seek for Fadlallah, that he might
redeem his son with wealth; but had passed
several years upon the road.
</p>

<p>
Fortune, however, now smiled upon this unhappy
family, and in spite of his age, Fadlallah
set out for Fars. Heaven made the desert easy,
and the road short for him. On a fine calm
evening he entered the gardens of the governor,
and found his son gayly singing as he trimmed
an orange tree. After a vain attempt to preserve
an incognito, the good old man lifted up his
hands, and shouting, <q>Halil, my first born!</q>
fell upon the breast of the astonished slave.
Sweet was the interview in the orange grove,
sweet the murmured conversation between the
strong young man and the trembling patriarch,
until the perfumed dew of evening fell upon their
heads. Halil's liberty was easily obtained, and
father and son returned in safety to Beyrout.
Then the Weeping Chamber was closed, and the
door walled up; and Fadlallah and Selima lived
happily until age gently did its work at their appointed
times; and Halil and Miriam inherited
the house and the wealth that had been gathered
for them.
</p>

<p>
The supernatural part of the story remains to
be told. The Weeping Chamber was never again
opened; but every time that a death was about
to occur in the family, a shower of heavy teardrops
was heard to fall upon its marble floor,
and low wailings came through the walled doorway.
Years, centuries, passed away, and the
mystery repeated itself with unvarying uniformity.
The family fell into poverty, and only occupied
a portion of the house, but invariably before
one of its members sickened unto death, a
shower of heavy drops, as from a thunder cloud,
pattered on the pavement of the Weeping Chamber,
and was heard distinctly at night through
the whole house. At length the family quitted
the country in search of better fortunes elsewhere,
and the house remained for a long time
uninhabited.
</p>

<p>
The lady who narrated the story went to live
in the house, and passed some years without being
disturbed; but one night she was lying awake,
and distinctly heard the warning shower dripping
heavily in the Weeping Chamber. Next day the
news came of her mother's death, and she hastened
to remove to another dwelling. The house
has since been utterly abandoned to rats, mice,
beetles, and an occasional ghost seen sometimes
streaming along the rain-pierced terraces. No
one has ever attempted to violate the solitude of
the sanctuary where Selima wept for the seven
little ones taken to the grave, and for the absent
one whom she had treated with unmotherly
neglect.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>An Old Maid's First Love.</head>

<p>
I went once to the south of France for my
health; and being recommended to choose
the neighborhood of Avignon, took my place, I
scarcely know why, in the diligence all the way
from Paris. By this proceeding I missed the
steam-voyage down the Rhône, but fell in with
<pb n='361'/><anchor id='Pg361'/>
some very pleasant people, about whom I am
going to speak. I traveled in the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>intérieur</foreign>,
and from Lyon had no one for companion but a fussy
little lady, of a certain age, who had a large
basket, a parrot in a cage, a little lapdog, a band-box,
a huge blue umbrella, which she could never
succeed in stowing any where, and a moth-eaten
muff. In my valetudinarian state I was not
pleased with this inroad&mdash;especially as the little
lady had a thin, pinched-up face, and obstinately
looked out of the window, while she popped
about the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>intérieur</foreign>
as if she had just taken lodgings,
and was putting them in order, throwing
me every now and then some gracious apology
in a not unpleasant voice. <q>Mince as you please,
madam,</q> thought I; <q>you are a bore.</q> I am
sorry to add that I was very unaccommodating,
gave no assistance in the stowing away of the
umbrella, and when Fanfreluche came and placed
his silken paws upon my knees, pushed him away
very rudely. The little old maid&mdash;it was evident
this was her quality&mdash;apologized for her dog as
she had done for herself, and went on arranging
her furniture&mdash;an operation not completed before
we got to St. Saphorin.
</p>

<p>
For some hours a perfect silence was preserved,
although my companion several times gave a
short, dry cough, as if about to make an observation.
At length, the digestion of a hurried
dinner being probably completed, I felt all of a
sudden quite bland and sociable, and began to
be mightily ashamed of myself. <q>Decidedly,</q>
thought I, <q>I must give this poor woman the
benefit of my conversation.</q> So I spoke, very
likely with that self-satisfied air assumed sometimes
by men accustomed to be well received.
To my great vexation the old maid had by this
time taken offense, and answered in a very stiff
and reserved manner. Now the whole absurdity
of my conduct was evident to me, and I determined
to make amends. Being naturally of a diplomatic
turn, I kept quiet for a while, and then
began to make advances to Fanfreluche. The
poor animal bore no malice, and I won his heart
by stroking his long ears. Then I gave a piece
of sugar to the parrot; and having thus effected
a practicable breach, took the citadel by storm by
pointing out a more commodious way of arranging
the great blue umbrella.
</p>

<p>
We were capital friends thenceforward; and I
soon knew the history of Mlle. Nathalie Bernard
by heart. A mightily uninteresting history it
was to all but herself; so I shall not repeat it:
suffice to say, that she had lived long on her little
income, as she called it, at Lyon, and was now
on her way to Avignon, where a very important
object called her. This was no other than to
save her niece Marie from a distasteful marriage,
which her parents, very good people, but dazzled
by the wealth of the unamiable suitor, wished to
bring about.
</p>

<p>
<q>And have you,</q> said I, <q>any reasonable hope
of succeeding in your mission?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Parbleu!</foreign></q> replied the old maid, <q>I have
composed a little speech on ill-assorted unions,
which I am sure will melt the hearts of my sister
and my brother-in-law; and if that does not succeed&mdash;why,
I will make love to the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>futur</foreign> myself,
and whisper in his ear that a comfortable little
income available at once, and a willing old maid,
are better than a cross-grained damsel with expectations
only. You see I am resolved to make
any sacrifice to effect my object.</q>
</p>

<p>
I laughed at the old maid's disinterestedness,
which was perhaps greater than at first appeared.
At least she assured me that she had refused
several respectable offers, simply because she
liked the independence of a single life; and that
if she had remained single to that age, it was a
sign that marriage had nothing attractive for her
in itself. We discussed the point learnedly as
the diligence rolled; and what with the original
turn of my companion's mind, the sportive disposition
of Fanfreluche, and the occasional disjointed
soliloquies of Coco, the parrot, our time
passed very pleasantly. When night came, Mlle.
Nathalie ensconced herself in the corner behind
her parcels and animals, and endeavored to sleep;
but the jolting of the diligence, and her own lively
imagination, wakened her every five minutes;
and I had each time to give her a solemn assurance,
on my word of honor as a gentleman, that
there was no particular danger of our being upset
into the Rhône.
</p>

<p>
We were ascending a steep hill next day,
both had got out to walk. I have omitted to
note that it was autumn. Trees and fields were
touched by the golden fingers of the season. The
prospect was wide, but I forget the precise locality.
On the opposite side of the Rhône, which
rolled its rapid current in a deepening valley to
our right, rose a range of hills, covered with
fields that sloped wonderfully, and sometimes
gave place to precipices or wood-lined declivities.
Here and there the ruins of some old castle&mdash;reminiscences
of feudal times&mdash;rose amid lofty
crags, and traced their jagged outline against the
deep-blue sky of Provence. Nathalie became
almost sentimental as she gazed around on this
beautiful scene.
</p>

<p>
We had climbed about half of the hill; the
diligence was a little way behind; the five horses
were stamping and striking fire from the pavement
as they struggled up with the ponderous
vehicle: the other passengers had lingered in the
rear with the conductor, who had pointed out a
little <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>auberge</foreign> among some trees. We here saw
a man preceding us upon the road carrying a
little bundle at the end of a stick over his shoulder:
he seemed to advance painfully. Our attention
was attracted&mdash;I scarcely knew why.
He paused a moment&mdash;then went on with an
uncertain step&mdash;paused again, staggered forward,
and fell on his face just as we came up.
Mlle. Nathalie, with a presence of mind that surprised
me, had her smelling-bottle out in an instant,
and was soon engaged in restoring the unfortunate
traveler to consciousness. I assisted
as well as I was able, and trust that my good-will
may atone for my awkwardness. Nathalie
did every thing; and, just as the diligence
reached us, was gazing with delight on the languid
<pb n='362'/><anchor id='Pg362'/>
opening of a pair of as fine eyes as I have
ever seen, and supporting in her lap a head covered
with beautiful curls. Even at that moment,
as I afterward remembered, she looked upon the
young man as a thing over which she had acquired
a right of property. <q>He is going our
way,</q> said she: <q>let us lift him into the diligence.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A beggarly Parisian; yo, yo!</q> quoth the
postillion as he passed, clacking his long whip.
</p>

<p>
<q>Who will answer for his fare?</q> inquired the
conductor.
</p>

<p>
<q>I will,</q> replied Nathalie, taking the words
out of my mouth.
</p>

<p>
In a few minutes the young man, who looked
bewildered and could not speak, was safely
stowed away among Nathalie's other parcels;
and the crest of the hill being gained, we began
rolling rapidly down a steep descent. The little
old maid, though in a perfect ecstasy of delight&mdash;the
incident evidently appeared to her quite
an adventure&mdash;behaved with remarkable prudence.
While I was puzzling my head to guess
by what disease this poor young man had been
attacked, she was getting ready the remedies
that appeared to her the most appropriate, in the
shape of some excellent cakes and a bottle of
good wine, which she fished out of her huge
basket. Her protégé, made tame by hunger, allowed
himself to be treated like a child. First,
she gave him a very small sip of Burgundy, then
a diminutive fragment of cake; and then another
sip and another piece of cake&mdash;insisting on his
eating very slowly. Being perfectly useless, I
looked quietly on, and smiled to see the submissiveness
with which this fine, handsome fellow
allowed himself to be fed by the fussy old maid,
and how he kept his eyes fixed upon her with an
expression of wondering admiration.
</p>

<p>
Before we arrived at Avignon we knew the
history of the young man. He was an artist,
who had spent several years studying in Paris,
without friends, without resources, except a
miserable pittance which his mother, a poor
peasant woman, living in a village not far from
Aix, had managed to send him. At first he had
been upheld by hope; and although he knew
that his mother not only denied herself necessaries,
but borrowed money to support him, he
was consoled by the idea that the time would
come when, by the efforts of his genius, he would
be able to repay every thing, with the accumulated
interest which affection alone would calculate.
But his expenses necessarily increased, and
no receipts came to meet them. He was compelled
to apply to his mother for further assistance.
The answer was one word&mdash;<q>impossible.</q>
Then he endeavored calmly to examine
his position, came to the conclusion that for
several years more he must be a burden to his
mother if he obstinately pursued his career, and
that she must be utterly ruined to insure his
success. So he gave up his art, sold every thing
he had to pay part of his debts, and set out on
foot to return to his village and become a peasant,
as his father had been before him. The little
money he had taken with him was gone by the
time he reached Lyon. He had passed through
that city without stopping, and for more than
two days, almost for two nights, had incessantly
pursued his journey, without rest and without
food, until he had reached the spot where, exhausted
with fatigue and hunger, he had fallen,
perhaps to perish had we not been there to assist
him.
</p>

<p>
Nathalie listened with eager attention to this
narrative, told with a frankness which our sympathy
excited. Now and then she gave a convulsive
start, or checked a hysterical sob, and at
last fairly burst into tears. I was interested as
well as she, but retained more calmness to observe
how moral beauty almost vainly struggled
to appear through the insignificant features of
this admirable woman. Her little eyes, reddened
with weeping; her pinched-up nose, blooming
at the point; her thin lips, probably accustomed
to sarcasm; her cheeks, with a leaden citron hue;
her hair that forked up in unmanageable curls&mdash;all
combined to obscure the exquisite expression
of respect and sympathy, perhaps already of love,
sparkling from her kindled soul, that could just
be made out by an attentive eye. At length,
however, she became for a moment perfectly
beautiful, as, when the young painter had finished
his story, with an expression that showed
how bitterly he regretted his abandoned art, she
took both his hands in hers, and exclaimed, <q>No,
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>mon enfant</foreign>, you shall not be thus disappointed.
Your genius</q>&mdash;she already took for granted he
had genius&mdash;<q>shall have an opportunity for development.
Your mother can not do what is
necessary&mdash;she has played her part. I will be a&mdash;second
mother to you, in return for the little
affection you can bestow on me without ingratitude
to her to whom you owe your life.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>My life has to be paid for twice,</q> said he,
kissing her hand. Nathalie could not help looking
round proudly to me. It was so flattering to
receive the gallant attentions of so handsome a
young man, that I think she tried to forget how
she had bought them.
</p>

<p>
In the exuberance of her hospitality, the little
old maid invited both Claude Richer and myself
to spend some time in the large farm-house of
her brother-in-law. I declined, with a promise
to be a frequent visitor; but Claude, who was
rather commanded than asked, could do nothing
but accept. I left them at the diligence office,
and saw them walk away, the little Nathalie affecting
to support her feeble companion. For
the honor of human nature let me add, that the
conductor said nothing about the fare. <q>It
would have been indelicate,</q> he said to me, <q>to
remind Mlle. Nathalie of her promise in the
young man's presence. I know her well; and
she will pay me at a future time. At any rate,
I must show that there is a heart under this
waistcoat.</q> So saying, the conductor thumped
his breast with simple admiration of his own
humanity, and went away, after recommending
me to the Café de Paris&mdash;indeed an excellent
house.
</p>

<pb n='363'/><anchor id='Pg363'/>

<p>
I shall say nothing of a variety of little incidents
that occurred to me at Avignon, nor about
my studies on the history of the popes who resided
there. I must reserve myself entirely for
the development of Nathalie's romance, which I
could not follow step by step, but the chief features
of which I was enabled to catch during a
series of visits I paid to the farm-house. Nathalie
herself was very communicative to me at
first, and scarcely deigned to conceal her sentiments.
By degrees, however, as the catastrophe
approached, she became more and more reserved;
and I had to learn from others, or to
guess the part she played.
</p>

<p>
The farm-house was situated on the other side
of the river, in a small plain, fertile and well
wooded. Old Cossu, the owner, was a fine jolly
fellow, but evidently a little sharp in money-matters.
I was surprised at first that he received
the visit of Claude favorably; but when it came
out that a good part of his capital belonged to
Nathalie, every circumstance of deference to her
was explained. Mère Cossu was not a very remarkable
personage; unless it be remarkable
that she entertained the most profound veneration
for her husband, quoted his commonest sayings
as witticisms, and was ready to laugh herself
into convulsions if he sneezed louder than
usual. Marie was a charming little person; perhaps
a little too demure in her manners, considering
her wicked black eyes. She was soon very
friendly with Claude and me, but seemed to prefer
passing her time in whispered conversations
with Nathalie. I was let into the secret that
their conversation turned principally on the means
of getting rid of the husband-elect&mdash;a great lubberly
fellow, who lived some leagues off, and
whose red face shone over the garden-gate, in
company with a huge nosegay, regularly every
Sunday morning. In spite of the complying
temper of old Cossu in other respects when Nathalie
gave her advice, he seemed obstinately
bent on choosing his own son-in-law. Parents
are oftener correct than romancers will allow in
their negative opinions on this delicate subject,
but I can not say as much for them when they
undertake to be affirmative.
</p>

<p>
I soon observed that Nathalie was not so entirely
devoted to the accomplishment of the object
for which she had undertaken the journey as she
had promised; and, above all, that she spoke no
more of the disinterested sacrifice of herself as a
substitute for Marie. I maliciously alluded to
this subject in one of our private confabulations,
and Nathalie, instead of being offended, frankly
answered that she could not make big Paul Boneau
happy and assist Claude in his studies at
the same time. <q>I have now,</q> she said, <q>an
occupation for the rest of my life&mdash;namely, to
develop this genius, of which France will one
day be proud; and I shall devote myself to it
unremittingly.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Come, Nathalie,</q> replied I, taking her arm
in mine as we crossed the poplar-meadow, <q>have
you no hope of a reward?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I understand,</q> quoth she, frankly; <q>and I
will not play at cross-purposes with you. If
this young man really loves his art, and his art
alone, as he pretends, could he do better than
reward me&mdash;as you call it&mdash;for my assistance?
The word has a cruel signification, but you did
not mean it unkindly.</q>
</p>

<p>
I looked at her wan, sallow countenance, that
had begun for some days to wear an expression
of painful anxiety. At that moment I saw over
a hedge&mdash;but she could not&mdash;Claude and Marie
walking in a neighboring field, and pausing now
and then to bend their heads very close together
in admiration of some very common flower.
<q>Poor old maid,</q> thought I, <q>you will have no
reward save the consciousness of your own pure
intentions.</q>
</p>

<p>
The minute development of this drama without
dramatic scenes would, perhaps, be more instructive
than any elaborate analysis of human
passions in general; but it would require a volume,
and I can only here give a mere summary.
Nathalie, in whom alone I felt particularly interested,
soon found that she had deceived herself
as to the nature of her sentiments for Claude&mdash;that
instead of regarding him with almost maternal
solicitude, she loved him with an intensity
that is the peculiar characteristic of passions
awakened late in life, when the common consolation
is inadmissible&mdash;<q>after all, I may find better.</q>
This was her last, her only chance of a
happiness which she had declared to me she had
never dreamed of, but which in reality she had
only declined because it did not present itself to
her under all the conditions required by her refined
and sensitive mind. Claude, who was an
excellent fellow, but incapable of comprehending
her or sacrificing himself, never swerved from
grateful deference to her; but I could observe,
that as the state of her feelings became more
apparent, he took greater care to mark the character
of his sentiments for her, and to insist with
some affectation on the depth of his filial affection.
Nathalie's eyes were often red with tears&mdash;a
fact which Claude did not choose, perhaps,
to notice, for fear of an explanation. Marie, on
the contrary, became more blooming every day,
while her eloquent eyes were still more assiduously
bent upon the ground. It was evident to
me that she and Claude understood one another
perfectly well.
</p>

<p>
At length the same thing became evident to
Nathalie. How the revelation was made to her
I do not know; but sudden it must have been,
for I met her one day in the poplar-field, walking
hurriedly along with an extraordinary expression
of despair in her countenance. I know not why,
but the thought at once occurred to me that the
Rhône ran rapid and deep not far off, and I threw
myself across her path. She started like a guilty
thing, but did not resist when I took her hand
and led her back slowly toward the farm-house.
We had nearly reached it in silence, when she
suddenly stopped, and bursting into tears, turned
away into a by-lane where was a little bench
under an elm. Here she sat down and sobbed
for a long time, while I stood by. At length she
<pb n='364'/><anchor id='Pg364'/>
raised her head and asked me, <q>Do morality and
religion require self-sacrifice even to the end&mdash;even
to making half a life a desert, even to heart-breaking,
even unto death?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It scarcely belongs to a selfish mortal to
counsel such virtue,</q> I replied; <q>but it is because
it is exercised here and there, now and
then, once in a hundred years, that man can
claim some affinity with the divine nature.</q>
</p>

<p>
A smile of ineffable sweetness played about
the poor old girl's lips. She wiped her eyes,
and began talking of the changing aspect of the
season, and how the trees day by day more rapidly
shed their leaves, and how the Rhône had
swelled within its ample bed, and of various
topics apparently unconnected with her frame
of mind, but all indicating that she felt the winter
was coming&mdash;a long and dreary winter for
her. At this moment Fanfreluche, who had
missed her, came down the lane barking with
fierce joy; and she took the poor little beast in
her arms, and exhaled the last bitter feeling that
tormented her in these words: <q>Thou at least
lovest me&mdash;because I have fed thee!</q> In her
humility she seemed now to believe that her
only claim to love was her charity; and that
even this claim was not recognized except by
a dog!
</p>

<p>
I was not admitted to the secret of the family
conclave that took place, but learned simply that
Nathalie pleaded with feverish energy the love
that had grown up between Marie and Claude
as an insuperable bar to the proposed marriage
between Paul Boneau and her niece. Matters
were arranged by means of large sacrifices on
the part of the heroic maid. Paul's face ceased
to beam over the garden-gate on a Sunday morning;
and by degrees the news got abroad that
Marie was betrothed to the young artist. One
day a decent old woman in <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>sabots</foreign> came to the
farm-house; it was Claude's mother, who had
walked from Aix to see him. It was arranged
that Claude should pursue his studies a year
longer, and then marry. Whether any explanation
took place I do not know; but I observed
that the young man sometimes looked with the
same expression of wondering admiration I had
observed in the diligence on the little Nathalie&mdash;-more
citron-hued than ever. At length she unhooked
the cage of Coco, the parrot, took Fanfreluche
under one arm and her blue umbrella
under the other, and went away in company
with the whole family, myself included, every
one carrying a parcel or a basket to the diligence
office. What a party that was! Every one was
in tears except Nathalie. She bore up manfully
if I may use the word; laughed, and actually
joked; but just as I handed Coco in, her factitious
courage yielded, and she burst into an
agony of grief. With officious zeal I kept at
the window until the diligence gave a lurch and
started; and then turning round I looked at
Claude and Marie, who were already mingling
their eyes in selfish forgetfulness of their benefactress,
and said, solemnly: <q>There goes the
best woman ever created for this unworthy earth.</q>
The artist, who, for an ordinary man, did not
lack sentiment, took my hand and said: <q>Sir, I
will quarrel with any man who says less of that
angel than you have done.</q>
</p>

<p>
The marriage was brought about in less time
than had been agreed upon. Nathalie of course
did not come; but she sent some presents and
a pleasant letter of congratulation, in which she
called herself <q>an inveterate old maid.</q> About
a year afterward I passed through Lyon and saw
her. She was still very yellow and more than
ever attentive to Fanfreluche and Coco. I even
thought she devoted herself too much to the
service of these two troublesome pets, to say
nothing of a huge cat which she had added to
her menagerie, as a kind of hieroglyphic of her
condition. <q>How fare the married couple?</q>
cried she, tossing up her cork-screw curls. <q>Still
cooing and billing?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Mademoiselle,</q> said I, <q>they are getting on
pretty well. Claude, finding the historic pencil
not lucrative, has taken to portrait-painting; and
being no longer an enthusiastic artist, talks even
of adopting the more expeditious method of the
Daguerreotype. In the mean time, half the
tradesmen of Avignon, to say nothing of Aix,
have bespoken caricatures of themselves by his
hand. Marie makes a tolerable wife, but has a
terrible will of her own, and is feared as well as
loved.</q>
</p>

<p>
Nathalie tried to laugh; but the memory of
her old illusions coming over her, she leaned
down toward the cat she was nursing, and sparkling
tears fell upon its glossy fur.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Poison-Eaters.</head>

<p>
A very interesting trial for murder took place
lately in Austria. The prisoner, Anna Alexander,
was acquitted by the jury, who, in the
various questions put to the witnesses, in order
to discover whether the murdered man, Lieutenant
Matthew Wursel, was a poison-eater or not,
educed some very curious evidence relating to
this class of persons.
</p>

<p>
As it is not generally known that eating poison
is actually practiced in more countries than one,
the following account of the custom, given by a
physician, Dr. T. von Tschudi, will not be without
interest.
</p>

<p>
In some districts of Lower Austria and in
Styria, especially in those mountainous parts
bordering on Hungary, there prevails the strange
habit of eating arsenic. The peasantry in particular
are given to it. They obtain it under the
name of <foreign rend='italic'>hedri</foreign> from the traveling hucksters and
gatherers of herbs, who, on their side, get it from
the glass-blowers, or purchase it from the cow-doctors,
quacks, or mountebanks.
</p>

<p>
The poison-eaters have a twofold aim in their
dangerous enjoyment: one of which is to obtain
a fresh, healthy appearance, and acquire a certain
degree of <foreign rend='italic'>embonpoint</foreign>. On this account,
therefore, gay village lads and lasses employ the
dangerous agent, that they may become more
attractive to each other; and it is really astonishing
with what favorable results their endeavors
<pb n='365'/><anchor id='Pg365'/>
are attended, for it is just the youthful poison-eaters
that are, generally speaking, distinguished
by a blooming complexion, and an appearance of
exuberant health. Out of many examples I select
the following:
</p>

<p>
A farm-servant who worked in the cow-house
belonging to &mdash;&mdash; was thin and pale, but nevertheless
well and healthy. This girl had a lover
whom she wished to enchain still more firmly;
and in order to obtain a more pleasing exterior
she had recourse to the well-known means, and
swallowed every week several doses of arsenic.
The desired result was obtained; and in a few
months she was much fuller in the figure, rosy-cheeked,
and, in short, quite according to her
lover's taste. In order to increase the effect, she
was so rash as to increase the dose of arsenic,
and fell a victim to her vanity: she was poisoned,
and died an agonizing death.
</p>

<p>
The number of deaths in consequence of the
immoderate enjoyment of arsenic is not inconsiderable,
especially among the young. Every
priest who has the cure of souls in those districts
where the abuse prevails could tell such tragedies;
and the inquiries I have myself made on the
subject have opened out very singular details.
Whether it arise from fear of the law, which
forbids the unauthorized possession of arsenic,
or whether it be that an inner voice proclaims to
him his sin, the arsenic-eater always conceals as
much as possible the employment of these dangerous
means. Generally speaking, it is only
the confessional or the death-bed that raises the
vail from the terrible secret.
</p>

<p>
The second object the poison-eaters have in
view is to make them, as they express it, <q>better
winded!</q>&mdash;that is, to make their respiration
easier when ascending the mountains. Whenever
they have far to go and to mount a considerable
height, they take a minute morsel of
arsenic and allow it gradually to dissolve. The
effect is surprising; and they ascend with ease
heights which otherwise they could climb only
with distress to the chest.
</p>

<p>
The dose of arsenic with which the poison-eaters
begin, consists, according to the confession
of some of them, of a piece the size of a lentil,
which in weight would be rather less than half
a grain. To this quantity, which they take fasting
several mornings in the week, they confine
themselves for a considerable time; and then
gradually, and very carefully, they increase the
dose according to the effect produced. The
peasant R&mdash;&mdash;, living in the parish of A&mdash;&mdash;g,
a strong, hale man of upward of sixty, takes at
present at every dose a piece of about the weight
of four grains. For more than forty years he
has practiced this habit, which he inherited from
his father, and which he in his turn will bequeath
to his children.
</p>

<p>
It is well to observe, that neither in these nor
in other poison-eaters is there the least trace of
an arsenic cachexy discernible; that the symptoms
of a chronic arsenical poisoning never show
themselves in individuals who adapt the dose to
their constitution, even although that dose should
be considerable. It is not less worthy of remark,
however, that when, either from inability to obtain
the acid, or from any other cause, the perilous
indulgence is stopped, symptoms of illness are
sure to appear, which have the closest resemblance
to those produced by poisoning from arsenic.
These symptoms consist principally in
a feeling of general discomfort, attended by a
perfect indifference to all surrounding persons
and things, great personal anxiety, and various
distressing sensations arising from the digestive
organs, want of appetite, a constant feeling of
the stomach being overloaded at early morning,
an unusual degree of salivation, a burning from
the pylorus to the throat, a cramp-like movement
in the pharynx, pains in the stomach, and especially
difficulty of breathing. For all these symptoms
there is but one remedy&mdash;a return to the
enjoyment of arsenic.
</p>

<p>
According to inquiries made on the subject, it
would seem that the habit of eating poison among
the inhabitants of Lower Austria has not grown
into a passion, as is the case with the opium-eaters
in the East, the chewers of the betel nut
in India and Polynesia, and of the coco-leaves
among the natives of Peru. When once commenced,
however, it becomes a necessity.
</p>

<p>
In some districts sublimate of quicksilver is
used in the same way. One case in particular
is mentioned by Dr. von Tschudi, a case authenticated
by the English embassador at Constantinople,
of a great opium-eater at Brussa, who
daily consumed the enormous quantity of forty
grains of corrosive sublimate with his opium.
In the mountainous parts of Peru the doctor
met very frequently with eaters of corrosive sublimate;
and in Bolivia the practice is still more
frequent, where this poison is openly sold in the
market to the Indians.
</p>

<p>
In Vienna the use of arsenic is of every-day
occurrence among horse-dealers, and especially
with the coachmen of the nobility. They either
shake it in a pulverized state among the corn, or
they tie a bit the size of a pea in a piece of linen,
which they fasten to the curb when the horse is
harnessed, and the saliva of the animal soon dissolves
it. The sleek, round, shining appearance
of the carriage-horses, and especially the much-admired
foaming at the mouth, is the result of
this arsenic-feeding.<note place='foot'>Arsenic produces an increased
salivation.</note> It is a common practice
with the farm-servants in the mountainous parts
to strew a pinch of arsenic on the last feed of
hay before going up a steep road. This is done
for years without the least unfavorable result;
but should the horse fall into the hands of another
owner who withholds the arsenic, he loses
flesh immediately, is no longer lively, and even
with the best feeding there is no possibility of restoring
him to his former sleek appearance.
</p>

<p>
The above particulars, communicated by a
contributor residing in Germany, are curious
only inasmuch as they refer to poisons of a
peculiarly quick and deadly nature. Our ordinary
<q>indulgences</q> in this country are the same
in kind, though not in degree, for we are all
<pb n='366'/><anchor id='Pg366'/>
poison-eaters. To say nothing of our opium and
alcohol consumers, our teetotallers are delighted
with the briskness and sparkle of spring-water,
although these qualities indicate the presence of
carbonic acid or fixed air. In like manner, few
persons will object to a drop or two of the frightful
corrosive, sulphuric acid (vitriol), in a glass
of water, to which it communicates an agreeably
acid taste; and most of us have, at some period
or other of our lives, imbibed prussic acid, arsenic,
and other deadly poisons under the orders
of the physician, or the first of these in the more
pleasing form of confectionary. Arsenic is said
by Dr. Pearson to be as harmless as a glass of
wine in the quantity of one-sixteenth part of a
grain; and in the cure of agues it is so certain
in its effects, that the French Directory once issued
an edict ordering the surgeons of the Italian
army, under pain of military punishment, to banish
that complaint, at two or three days' notice,
from among the vast numbers of soldiers who
were languishing under it in the marshes of
Lombardy. It would seem that no poison taken
in small and diluted doses is immediately hurtful,
and the same thing may be said of other
agents. The tap of a fan, for instance, is a <emph>blow</emph>,
and so is the stroke of a club; but the one gives
an agreeable sensation, and the other fells the
recipient to the ground. In like manner the
analogy holds good between the distribution of a
blow over a comparatively large portion of the
surface of the body and the dilution or distribution
of the particles of a poison. A smart thrust
upon the breast, for instance, with a foil does no
injury; but if the button is removed, and the
same momentum thus thrown to a point, the
instrument enters the structures, and perhaps
causes death.
</p>

<p>
But the misfortune is, that poisons swallowed
for the sake of the agreeable sensations they occasion
owe this effect to their action upon the
nervous system; and the action must be kept up
by a constantly increasing dose till the constitution
is irremediably injured. In the case of arsenic,
as we have seen, so long as the excitement
is undiminished all is apparently well; but the
point is at length reached when to proceed or to
turn back is alike death. The moment the dose
is diminished or entirely withdrawn, symptoms
of poison appear, and the victim perishes because
he has shrunk from killing himself. It is just so
when the stimulant is alcohol. The morning
experience of the drinker prophesies, on every
succeeding occasion, of the fate that awaits him.
It may be pleasant to get intoxicated, but to get
sober is horror. The time comes, however, when
the pleasure is at an end, and the horror alone
remains. When the habitual stimulus reaches
its highest, and the undermined constitution can
stand no more, then comes the reaction. If the
excitement could go on <foreign rend='italic'>ad infinitum</foreign>, the prognosis
would be different; but the poison-symptoms
appear as soon as the dose can no longer
be increased without producing instant death,
and the drunkard dies of the want of drink!
Many persons, it can not be denied, reach a
tolerable age under this stimulus; but they do
so only by taking warning in time&mdash;perhaps
from some frightful illness&mdash;and carefully proportioning
the dose to the sinking constitution.
<q>I can not drink now as formerly,</q> is a common
remark&mdash;sometimes elevated into the boast, <q>I
<emph>do</emph> not drink now as formerly.</q> But the relaxation
of the habit is compulsory; and by a thousand
other tokens, as well as the inability to
indulge in intoxication, the <foreign rend='italic'>ci-devant</foreign> drinker is
reminded of a madness which even in youth
produced more misery than enjoyment, and now
adds a host of discomforts to the ordinary fragility
of age. As for arsenic-eating, we trust it
will never be added to the madnesses of our own
country. Think of a man deliberately condemning
himself to devour this horrible poison, on an
increasing scale, during his whole life, with the
certainty that if at any time, through accident,
necessity, or other cause, he holds his hand, he
must die the most agonizing of all deaths! In
so much horror do we hold the idea, that we
would have refrained from mentioning the subject
at all if we had not observed a paragraph
making the round of the papers, and describing
the agreeable phases of the practice without
mentioning its shocking results.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Child's History Of King John's
Reign. By Charles Dickens.</head>

<p>
At two-and-thirty years of age, John became
King of England. His pretty little nephew
Arthur had the best claim to the throne; but John
seized the treasure, and made fine promises to
the nobility, and got himself crowned at Westminster
within a few weeks after his brother
Richard's death. I doubt whether the crown
could possibly have been put upon the head of a
meaner coward, or a more detestable villain, if
the country had been searched from end to end
to find him out.
</p>

<p>
The French King, Philip, refused to acknowledge
the right of John to his new dignity, and
declared in favor of Arthur. You must not suppose
that he had any generosity of feeling for the
fatherless boy; it merely suited his ambitious
schemes to oppose the King of England. So,
John and the French King went to war about
Arthur.
</p>

<p>
He was a handsome boy, at that time only
twelve years, old. He was not born when his
father, Geoffrey, had his brains trampled out at
the tournament; and, beside the misfortune of
never having known a father's guidance and protection,
he had the additional misfortune to have
a foolish mother (Constance by name), lately
married to her third husband. She took Arthur,
upon John's accession, to the French King, who
pretended to be very much his friend, and made
him a knight, and promised him his daughter in
marriage; but, who cared so little about him in
reality, that finding it his interest to make peace
with King John for a time, he did so without the
least consideration for the poor little Prince, and
heartlessly sacrificed all his interests.
</p>

<pb n='367'/><anchor id='Pg367'/>

<p>
Young Arthur, for two years afterward, lived
quietly; and in the course of that time his mother
died. But, the French King then finding it
his interest to quarrel with King John again,
again made Arthur his pretense, and invited the
orphan boy to court. <q>You know your rights,
Prince,</q> said the French King, <q>and you would
like to be a king. Is it not so?</q> <q>Truly,</q> said
Prince Arthur, <q>I should greatly like to be a
King!</q> <q>Then,</q> said Philip, <q>you shall have
two hundred gentlemen who are knights of mine,
and with them you shall go to win back the provinces
belonging to you, of which your uncle, the
usurping King of England, has taken possession.
I myself, meanwhile, will head a force against
him in Normandy.</q> Poor Arthur was so flattered
and so grateful, that he signed a treaty with
the crafty French King, agreeing to consider him
his superior Lord, and that the French King
should keep for himself whatever he could take
from King John.
</p>

<p>
Now, King John was so bad in all ways, and
King Philip was so perfidious, that Arthur, between
the two, might as well have been a lamb
between a fox and a wolf. But, being so young,
he was ardent and flushed with hope; and, when
the people of Brittany (which was his inheritance)
sent him five hundred more knights and
five thousand foot soldiers, he believed his fortune
was made. The people of Brittany had been
fond of him from his birth, and had requested
that he might be called Arthur, in remembrance
of that dimly-famous English Arthur, of whom I
told you early in this book, whom they believed
to have been the brave friend and companion of
an old king of their own. They had tales among
them about a prophet called Merlin (of the same
old time), who had foretold that their own king
should be restored to them after hundreds of
years; and they believed that the prophecy would
be fulfilled in Arthur; that the time would come
when he would rule them with a crown of Brittany
upon his head; and when neither King of
France nor King of England would have any
power over them. When Arthur found himself
riding in a glittering suit of armor on a richly
caparisoned horse, at the head of his train of
knights and soldiers, he began to believe this too,
and to consider old Merlin a very superior prophet.
</p>

<p>
He did not know&mdash;how could he, being so innocent
and inexperienced?&mdash;that his little army
was a mere nothing against the power of the
King of England. The French King knew it;
but the poor boy's fate was little to him, so that
the King of England was worried and distressed.
Therefore, King Philip went his way into Normandy,
and Prince Arthur went his way toward
Mirebeau, a French town near Poictiers, both
very well pleased.
</p>

<p>
Prince Arthur went to attack the town of
Mirebeau, because his grandmother Eleanor, who
has so often made her appearance in this history
(and who had always been his mother's enemy),
was living there, and because his knights said,
<q>Prince, if you can take her prisoner, you will be
able to bring the king your uncle to terms!</q> But
she was not to be easily taken. She was old
enough by this time&mdash;eighty&mdash;but she was as
full of stratagem as she was full of years and
wickedness. Receiving intelligence of young
Arthur's approach, she shut herself up in a high
tower, and encouraged her soldiers to defend it
like men. Prince Arthur with his little army
besieged the high tower. King John, hearing
how matters stood, came up to the rescue with
<emph>his</emph> army. So here was a strange family-party!
The boy-Prince besieging his grandmother, and
his uncle besieging him!
</p>

<p>
This position of affairs did not last long. One
summer night King John, by treachery, got his
men into the town, surprised Prince Arthur's
force, took two hundred of his knights, and seized
the Prince himself in his bed. The knights were
put in heavy irons, and driven away in open carts
drawn by bullocks, to various dungeons, where
they were most inhumanly treated, and where
some of them were starved to death. Prince
Arthur was sent to the castle of Falaise.
</p>

<p>
One day, while he was in prison at that castle,
mournfully thinking it strange that one so young
should be in so much trouble, and looking out of
the small window in the deep dark wall, at the
summer sky and the birds, the door was softly
opened, and he saw his uncle the King standing
in the shadow of the archway, looking very grim.
</p>

<p>
<q>Arthur,</q> said the King, with his wicked eyes
more on the stone floor than on his nephew,
<q>will you not trust to the gentleness, the friendship,
and the truthfulness, of your loving uncle?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I will tell my loving uncle that,</q> replied the
boy, <q>when he does me right. Let him restore
to me my kingdom of England, and then come
to me and ask the question.</q>
</p>

<p>
The King looked at him and went out. <q>Keep
that boy close prisoner,</q> said he to the warden
of the castle.
</p>

<p>
Then the King took secret counsel with the
worst of his nobles how the Prince was to be got
rid of. Some said, <q>Put out his eyes, and keep
him in prison, as Robert of Normandy was kept.</q>
Others said, <q>Have him stabbed.</q> Others,
<q>Have him hanged.</q> Others, <q>Have him poisoned.</q>
</p>

<p>
King John, feeling that, in any case, whatever
was done afterward, it would be a satisfaction
to his mind to have those handsome eyes burnt
out that had looked at him so proudly while his
own royal eyes were blinking at the stone floor,
sent certain ruffians to Falaise to blind the boy
with red-hot irons. But Arthur so pathetically
entreated them, and shed such piteous tears, and
so appealed to Hubert de Bourg, the warden of
the castle, who had a love for him, and was an
honorable, tender man, that Hubert could not bear
it. To his eternal honor he prevented the torture
from being performed, and, at his own risk,
sent the savages away.
</p>

<p>
The chafed and disappointed King bethought
himself of the stabbing suggestion next, and with
his shuffling manner and his cruel face, proposed
it to one William de Bray. <q>I am a gentleman,
<pb n='368'/><anchor id='Pg368'/>
and not an executioner,</q> said William de Bray,
and left the presence with disdain.
</p>

<p>
But it was not difficult for a king to hire a
murderer in those days. King John found one
for his money, and sent him down to the castle
of Falaise. <q>On what errand dost thou come?</q>
said Hubert to this fellow. <q>To dispatch young
Arthur,</q> he returned. <q>Go back to him who
sent thee,</q> answered Hubert, <q>and say that I
will do it!</q>
</p>

<p>
King John very well knowing that Hubert
would never do it, but that he courageously sent
this reply to save the Prince, or gain time, dispatched
messengers to convey the young prisoner
to the castle of Rouen.
</p>

<p>
Arthur was soon forced from the good Hubert&mdash;of
whom he had never stood in greater need
than then&mdash;carried away by night, and lodged in
his new prison: where, through the grated window,
he could hear the deep waters of the river
Seine, rippling against the stone wall below.
</p>

<p>
One dark night, as he lay sleeping, dreaming
perhaps of rescue by those unfortunate gentlemen
who were obscurely suffering and dying in
his cause, he was roused, and bidden by his jailer
to come down the staircase to the foot of the
tower. He hurriedly dressed himself and obeyed.
When they came to the bottom of the winding
stairs, and the night air from the river blew
upon their faces, the jailer trod upon his torch
and put it out. Then, Arthur, in the darkness,
was hurriedly drawn into a solitary boat. And
in that boat he found his uncle and one other man.
</p>

<p>
He knelt to them, and prayed them not to
murder him. Deaf to his entreaties, they stabbed
him and sunk his body in the river with heavy
stones. When the spring morning broke, the
tower-door was closed, the boat was gone, the
river sparkled on its way, and never more was
any trace of the poor boy beheld by mortal eyes.
</p>

<p>
The news of this atrocious murder being
spread in England, awakened a hatred of the
King (already odious for his many vices, and for
his having stolen away and married a noble lady
while his own wife was living) that never slept
again through his whole reign. In Brittany, the
indignation was intense. Arthur's own sister
Eleanor was in the power of John and shut up
in a convent at Bristol, but his half-sister Alice
was in Brittany. The people chose her, and the
murdered prince's father-in-law, the last husband
of Constance, to represent them; and carried
their fiery complaints to King Philip. King
Philip summoned King John (as the holder of
territory in France) to come before him and defend
himself. King John refusing to appear,
King Philip declared him false, perjured, and
guilty; and again made war. In a little time,
by conquering the greater part of his French
territory, King Philip deprived him of one-third
of his dominions. And, through all the fighting
that took place, King John was always found,
either to be eating and drinking, like a gluttonous
fool, when the danger was at a distance, or
to be running away, like a beaten cur, when it
was near.
</p>

<p>
You might suppose that when he was losing
his dominions at this rate, and when his own
nobles cared so little for him or his cause that
they plainly refused to follow his banner out of
England, he had enemies enough. But he made
another enemy of the Pope, which he did in this
way.
</p>

<p>
The Archbishop of Canterbury dying, and the
junior monks of that place wishing to get the
start of the senior monks in the appointment of
his successor, met together at midnight, secretly
elected a certain Reginald, and sent him off to
Rome to get the Pope's approval. The senior
monks and the King soon finding this out, and
being very angry about it, the junior monks gave
way, and all the monks together elected the
Bishop of Norwich, who was the King's favorite.
The Pope, hearing the whole story, declared
that neither election would do for him, and
that <emph>he</emph> elected Stephen Langton. The monks
submitting to the Pope, the King turned them
all out bodily, and banished them as traitors.&mdash;The
Pope sent three bishops to the King, to
threaten him with an Interdict. The King told
the bishops that if any Interdict were laid upon
his kingdom, he would tear out the eyes and cut
off the noses of all the monks he could lay hold
of, and send them over to Rome in that undecorated
state as a present for their master. The
bishops, nevertheless, soon published the Interdict,
and fled.
</p>

<p>
After it had lasted a year, the Pope proceeded
to his next step; which was excommunication.
King John was declared excommunicated, with
all the usual ceremonies. The King was so incensed
at this, and was made so desperate by the
disaffection of his barons and the hatred of his
people, that it is said that he even privately sent
embassadors to the Turks in Spain, offering to
renounce his religion and hold his kingdom of
them if they would help him. It is related that
the embassadors were admitted to the presence
of the Turkish Emir, through long lines of Moorish
guards, and that they found the Emir with
his eyes seriously fixed on the pages of a large
book from which he never once looked up. That
they gave him a letter from the King containing
his proposals, and were gravely dismissed. That
presently the Emir sent for one of them, and
conjured him, by his faith in his religion, to say
what kind of man the King of England truly
was? That the embassador, thus pressed, replied
that the King of England was a false tyrant,
against whom his own subjects would soon rise.
And that this was quite enough for the Emir.
</p>

<p>
Money being, in his position, the next best
thing to men, King John spared no means of
getting it. He set on foot another oppressing
and torturing of the unhappy Jews (which was
quite in his way), and invented a now punishment
for one wealthy Jew of Bristol. Until such
time as that Jew should produce a certain large
sum of money, the King sentenced him to be imprisoned,
and, every day, to have one tooth violently
wrenched out of his head&mdash;beginning with
the double teeth. For seven days the oppressed
<pb n='369'/><anchor id='Pg369'/>
man bore the daily pain and lost the daily tooth;
but, on the eighth, he paid the money. With
the treasure raised in such ways, the King made
an expedition into Ireland, where some English
nobles had revolted. It was one of the very few
places from which he did not run away; because
no resistance was shown. He made another expedition
into Wales&mdash;whence he <emph>did</emph> run away in
the end: but not before he had got from the
Welsh people, as hostages, twenty-seven young
men of the best families; every one of whom he
caused to be slain in the following year.
</p>

<p>
To Interdict and Excommunication, the Pope
now added his last sentence&mdash;Deposition. He
proclaimed John no longer King, absolved all his
subjects from their allegiance, and sent Stephen
Langton and others to the King of France to tell
him that, if he would invade England, he should
be forgiven all his sins&mdash;at least, should be forgiven
them by the Pope, if that would do.
</p>

<p>
As there was nothing that King Philip desired
more than to invade England, he collected a
great army at Rouen, and a fleet of seventeen
hundred ships to bring them over. But the English
people, however bitterly they hated the King,
were not a people to suffer invasion quietly.&mdash;They
flocked to Dover, where the English standard
was, in such great numbers to enroll themselves
as defenders of their native land, that there
were not provisions for them, and the King could
only select and retain sixty thousand. But, at
this crisis, the Pope, who had his own reasons
for objecting to either King John or King Philip
being too powerful, interfered. He intrusted a
legate, whose name was Pandolf, with the easy
task of frightening King John. He sent him to
the English camp, from France, to terrify him
with exaggerations of King Philip's power, and
his own weakness in the discontent of the English
barons and people. Pandolf discharged his
commission so well, that King John, in a wretched
panic, consented to acknowledge Stephen
Langton; to resign his kingdom <q>to God, Saint
Peter, and Saint Paul</q>&mdash;which meant the Pope;
and to hold it, ever afterward, by the Pope's
leave, on payment of an annual sum of money.
To this shameful contract he publicly bound himself
in the church of the Knights Templars at
Dover: where he laid at the legate's feet a part
of the tribute, which the legate haughtily trampled
upon. But they <emph>do</emph> say, that this was merely
a genteel flourish, and that he was afterward seen
to pick it up and pocket it.
</p>

<p>
There was an unfortunate prophet, of the name
of Peter, who had greatly increased King John's
terrors by predicting that he would be unknighted
(which the King supposed to signify that he
would die) before the Feast of Ascension should
be past. That was the day after this humiliation.
When the next morning came, and the
King, who had been trembling all night, found
himself alive and safe, he ordered the prophet&mdash;and
his son too&mdash;to be dragged through the streets
at the tails of horses, and then hanged, for having
frightened him.
</p>

<p>
As King John had now submitted, the Pope,
to King Philip's great astonishment, took him
under his protection, and informed King Philip
that he found he could not give him leave to
invade England. The angry Philip resolved to
do it without his leave; but, he gained nothing
and lost much; for, the English, commanded by
the Earl of Salisbury, went over, in five hundred
ships, to the French coast, before the French
fleet had sailed away from it, and utterly defeated
the whole.
</p>

<p>
The Pope then took off his three sentences,
one after another, and empowered Stephen Langton
publicly to receive King John into the favor
of the church again, and to ask him to dinner.
The King, who hated Langton with all his might
and main&mdash;and with reason too, for he was a
great and a good man, with whom such a King
could have no sympathy&mdash;pretended to cry and
to be very grateful. There was a little difficulty
about settling how much the King should pay,
as a recompense to the clergy for the losses he
had caused them; but, the end of it was, that
the superior clergy got a good deal, and the inferior
clergy got little or nothing&mdash;which has also
happened since King John's time, I believe.
</p>

<p>
When all these matters were arranged, the
King in his triumph became more fierce, and
false, and insolent to all around him than he had
ever been. An alliance of sovereigns against
King Philip, gave him an opportunity of landing
an army in France; with which he even took a
town! But, on the French King's gaining a
great victory, he ran away, of course, and made
a truce for five years.
</p>

<p>
And now the time approached when he was to
be still further humbled, and made to feel, if he
could feel any thing, what a wretched creature
he was. Of all men in the world, Stephen Langton
seemed raised up by Heaven to oppose and
subdue him. When he ruthlessly burnt and destroyed
the property of his own subjects, because
their lords, the Barons, would not serve him
abroad, Stephen Langton fearlessly reproved and
threatened him. When he swore to restore the
laws of King Edward, or the laws of King Henry
the First, Stephen Langton knew his falsehood,
and pursued him through all his evasions. When
the Barons met at the abbey of Saint Edmund's-Bury,
to consider their wrongs and the King's
oppressions, Stephen Langton roused them by
his fervid words to demand a solemn charter of
rights and liberties from their perjured master,
and to swear, one by one, on the high altar, that
they would have it, or would wage war against
him to the death. When the King hid himself
in London from the Barons, and was at last
obliged to receive them, they told him roundly
they would not believe him unless Stephen
Langton became a surety that he would keep
his word. When he took the Cross, to invest
himself with some interest, and belong to something
that was received with favor, Stephen
Langton was still immovable. When he appealed
to the Pope, and the Pope wrote to
Stephen Langton in behalf of his new favorite,
Stephen Langton was deaf, even to the Pope
<pb n='370'/><anchor id='Pg370'/>
himself, and saw before him nothing but the
welfare of England and the crimes of the English
King.
</p>

<p>
At Easter time, the Barons assembled at
Stamford in Lincolnshire, in proud array, and,
marching near to Oxford where the King was,
delivered into the hands of Stephen Langton and
two others, a list of grievances. <q>And these,</q>
they said, <q>he must redress, or we will do it for
ourselves?</q> When Stephen Langton told the
King as much, and read the list to him, he went
half mad with rage. But that did him no more
good than his afterward trying to pacify the
Barons with lies. They called themselves and
their followers, <q>The army of God and the Holy
Church.</q> Marching through the country, with
the people thronging to them every where (except
at Northampton, where they failed in an
attack upon the castle), they at last triumphantly
set up their banner in London itself, whither the
whole land, tired of the tyrant, seemed to flock
to join them. Seven knights alone, of all the
knights in England, remained with the King;
who, reduced to this strait, at last sent the Earl
of Pembroke to the Barons to say that he approved
of every thing, and would meet them to
sign their charter when they would. <q>Then,</q>
said the Barons, <q>let the day be the 15th of
June, and the place, Runny-Mead.</q>
</p>

<p>
On Monday, the fifteenth of June, one thousand
two hundred and fourteen, the King came
from Windsor Castle, and the Barons came from
the town of Staines, and they met on Runny-Mead,
which is still a pleasant meadow by the
Thames, where rushes grow in the clear waters
of the winding river, and its banks are green
with grass and trees. On the side of the Barons,
came the General of their army, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Robert Fitz-Walter</hi>,
and a great concourse of the nobility
of England. With the King, came, in all, some
four-and-twenty persons of any note, most of
whom despised him and were merely his advisers
in form. On that great day, and in that great
company, the King signed <hi rend='smallcaps'>Magna Charta</hi>&mdash;the
great charter of England&mdash;by which he pledged
himself to maintain the church in its rights; to
relieve the Barons of oppressive obligations as
vassals of the Crown&mdash;of which the Barons, in
their turn, pledged themselves to relieve <emph>their</emph>
vassals, the people; to respect the liberties of
London and all other cities and boroughs; to
protect foreign merchants who came to England;
to imprison no man without a fair trial; and to
sell, delay, or deny justice to none. As the
Barons knew his falsehood well, they further
required, as their securities, that he should send
out of his kingdom all his foreign troops; that
for two months they should hold possession of
the city of London, and Stephen Langton of the
Tower; and that five-and-twenty of their body,
chosen by themselves, should be a lawful committee
to watch the keeping of the charter, and
to make war upon him if he broke it.
</p>

<p>
All this he was obliged to yield. He signed
the charter with a smile, and, if he could have
looked agreeable, would have done so, as he departed
from the splendid assembly. When he
got home to Windsor Castle, he was quite a
madman in his helpless fury. And he broke the
charter immediately afterward.
</p>

<p>
He sent abroad for foreign soldiers, and sent
to the Pope for help, and plotted to take London
by surprise, while the Barons should be holding
a great tournament at Stamford, which they had
agreed to hold there as a celebration of the charter.
The Barons, however, found him out and
put it off. Then, when the Barons desired to
see him and tax him with his treachery, he made
numbers of appointments with them, and kept
none, and shifted from place to place, and was
constantly sneaking and skulking about. At last
he appeared at Dover, to join his foreign soldiers
of whom numbers came into his pay; and with
them he besieged and took Rochester Castle,
which was occupied by knights and soldiers of
the Barons. He would have hanged them every
one; but the leader of the foreign soldiers, fearful
of what the English people might afterward
do to him, interfered to save the knights; therefore
the King was fain to satisfy his vengeance
with the death of all the common men. Then
he sent the Earl of Salisbury, with one portion
of his army to ravage the eastern part of his own
dominions, while he carried fire and slaughter
into the northern part; torturing, plundering,
killing, and inflicting every possible cruelty upon
the people; and, every morning, setting a worthy
example to his men by setting fire, with his own
monster-hands, to the house where he had slept
the last night. Nor was this all; for the Pope,
coming to the aid of his precious friend, laid the
kingdom under an Interdict again, because the
people took part with the Barons. It did not
much matter, for the people had grown so used
to it now, that they had begun to think about it.
It occurred to them&mdash;perhaps to Stephen Langton
too&mdash;that they could keep their churches
open, and ring their bells, without the Pope's
permission as well as with it. So they tried the
experiment&mdash;and found that it succeeded perfectly.
</p>

<p>
It being now impossible to bear the country,
as a wilderness of cruelty, or longer to hold any
terms with such a foresworn outlaw of a king,
the Barons sent to LOUIS, son of the French
monarch, to offer him the English crown. Caring
as little for the Pope's excommunication of
him if he accepted the offer, as it is possible his
father may have cared for the Pope's forgiveness
of his sins, he landed at Sandwich (King John
immediately running away from Dover, where
he happened to be) and went on to London.
The Scottish King, with whom many of the
Northern English Lords had taken refuge; numbers
of the foreign soldiers, numbers of the Barons,
and numbers of the people, went over to
him every day&mdash;King John, the while, continually
running away in all directions. The career
of Louis was checked, however, by the suspicions
of the Barons, founded on the dying declaration
of a French Lord, that when the kingdom was
conquered he was sworn to banish them as traitors,
<pb n='371'/><anchor id='Pg371'/>
and to give their estates to some of his own
Nobles. Rather than suffer this, some of the
Barons hesitated; others even went over to King
John.
</p>

<p>
It seemed to be the turning point of King
John's fortunes, for, in his savage and murderous
course, he had now taken some towns and met
with some successes. But, happily for England
and humanity, his death was near. Crossing a
dangerous quicksand, called the Wash, not very
far from Wisbeach, the tide came up and nearly
drowned his army. He and his soldiers escaped;
but, looking back from the shore when he was
safe, he saw the roaring water sweep down in a
torrent, overturn the wagons, horses, and men
that carried his treasure, and engulf them in a
raging whirlpool from which nothing could be
delivered.
</p>

<p>
Cursing, and swearing, and gnawing his fingers,
he went on to Swinestead Abbey, where
the monks set before him quantities of pears, and
peaches, and new cider&mdash;some say poison too,
but there is very little reason to suppose so&mdash;of
which he ate and drank in an immoderate and
beastly way. All night he lay ill of a burning
fever, and haunted with horrible fears. Next
day, they put him in a horse-litter, and carried
him to Sleaford Castle, where he passed another
night of pain and horror. Next day, they carried
him, with greater difficulty than on the day before,
to the castle of Newark-upon-Trent; and
there, on the eighteenth of October, in the forty-ninth
year of his age, and the seventeenth of his
vile reign, was an end of this miserable brute.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>My Novel; Or, Varieties In English
Life.<note place='foot'>Continued from the January Number.</note></head>

<div>
<head>Book IX.&mdash;Initial Chapter.</head>

<p>
Now that I am fairly in the heart of my story,
these preliminary chapters must shrink into
comparatively small dimensions, and not encroach
upon the space required by the various
personages whose acquaintance I have picked
up here and there, and who are now all crowding
upon me like poor relations to whom one
has unadvisedly given a general invitation, and
who descend upon one simultaneously about
Christmas time. Where they are to be stowed,
and what is to become of them all, Heaven
knows; in the mean while, the reader will have
already observed that the Caxton family themselves
are turned out of their own rooms, sent
a-packing, in order to make way for the new
comers.
</p>

<p>
And now that I refer to that respected family,
I shall take occasion (dropping all metaphor) to
intimate a doubt, whether, should these papers
be collected and republished, I shall not wholly
recast the Initial Chapters in which the Caxtons
have been permitted to re-appear. They assure
me, themselves, that they feel a bashful apprehension
lest they may be accused of having thrust
irrelevant noses into affairs which by no means
belong to them&mdash;an impertinence which, being
a peculiarly shy race, they have carefully shunned
in the previous course of their innocent and
segregated existence. Indeed, there is some
cause for that alarm, seeing that not long since
in a journal professing to be critical, this <hi rend='italic'>My
Novel</hi>; <hi rend='italic'>or</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Varieties in English Life</hi>, was misnamed
and insulted as <q>a Continuation of <hi rend='italic'>The
Caxtons</hi>,</q> with which biographical work it has
no more to do (save in the aforesaid introductions
to previous Books in the present diversified and
compendious narrative) than I with Hecuba, or
Hecuba with me. Reserving the doubt herein
suggested for maturer deliberation, I proceed
with my new Initial Chapter. And I shall stint
the matter therein contained to a brief comment
upon <hi rend='smallcaps'>Public Life</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Were you ever in public life, my dear reader?
I don't mean, by that question, to ask whether
you were ever Lord-Chancellor, Prime-Minister,
Leader of the Opposition, or even a member of
the House of Commons. An author hopes to
find readers far beyond that very egregious but
very limited segment of the Great Circle. Were
you ever a busy man in your vestry, active in a
municipal corporation, one of a committee for
furthering the interests of an enlightened candidate
for your native burgh, town, or shire?&mdash;in
a word, did you ever resign your private comforts
as men in order to share the public troubles
of mankind? If ever you have so far departed
from the Lucretian philosophy, just look back&mdash;was
it life at all that you lived?&mdash;were you an individual
distinct existence&mdash;a passenger in the
railway?&mdash;or were you merely an indistinct
portion of that common flame which heated the
boiler and generated the steam that set off the
monster train?&mdash;very hot, very active, very useful,
no doubt; but all your identity fused in flame,
and all your forces vanishing in gas.
</p>

<p>
And you think the people in the railway carriages
care for you?&mdash;do you think that the
gentleman in the worsted wrapper is saying to
his neighbor with the striped rug on his comfortable
knees, <q>How grateful we ought to be for
that fiery particle which is crackling and hissing
under the boiler! It helps us on a fraction of
an inch from Vauxhall to Putney?</q> Not a bit
of it. Ten to one but he is saying&mdash;<q>Not sixteen
miles an hour! What the deuce is the
matter with the stoker?</q>
</p>

<p>
Look at our friend Audley Egerton. You
have just had a glimpse of the real being that
struggles under the huge copper; you have
heard the hollow sound of the rich man's coffers
under the tap of Baron Levy's friendly knuckle&mdash;heard
the strong man's heart give out its dull
warning sound to the scientific ear of Dr. F&mdash;&mdash;.
And away once more vanishes the separate existence,
lost again in the flame that heats the
boiler, and the smoke that curls into air from
the grimy furnace.
</p>

<p>
Look to it, O Public Man, whoever thou art,
and whatsoever thy degree&mdash;see if thou canst
not compound matters, so as to keep a little nook
apart for thy private life; that is, for <emph>thyself</emph>!
Let the great Popkins Question not absorb wholly
<pb n='372'/><anchor id='Pg372'/>
the individual soul of thee, as Smith or Johnson.
Don't so entirely consume thyself under that insatiable
boiler, that when thy poor little monad
rushes out from the sooty furnace, and arrives
at the stars, thou mayest find no vocation for
thee there, and feel as if thou hadst nothing to
do amidst the still splendors of the Infinite. I
don't deny to thee the uses of <q>Public Life;</q> I
grant that it is much to have helped to carry
that great Popkins Question; but Private Life,
my friend, is the life of thy private soul; and
there may be matters concerned with that which,
on consideration, thou mayest allow, can not be
wholly mixed up with the great Popkins Question&mdash;and
were not finally settled when thou
didst exclaim&mdash;<q>I have not lived in vain&mdash;the
Popkins Question is carried at last!</q> O immortal
soul, for one quarter of an hour <foreign rend='italic'>per
diem</foreign>&mdash;de-Popkinize
thine immortality!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter II.</head>

<p>
It had not been without much persuasion on
the part of Jackeymo, that Riccabocca had consented
to settle himself in the house which Randal
had recommended to him. Not that the exile
conceived any suspicion of the young man
beyond that which he might have shared with
Jackeymo, viz., that Randal's interest in the
father was increased by a very natural and excusable
admiration of the daughter. But the
Italian had the pride common to misfortune&mdash;he
did not like to be indebted to others, and he
shrank from the pity of those to whom it was
known that he had held a higher station in his
own land. These scruples gave way to the
strength of his affection for his daughter and
his dread of his foe. Good men, however able
and brave, who have suffered from the wicked,
are apt to form exaggerated notions of the power
that has prevailed against them. Jackeymo
had conceived a superstitious terror of Peschiera,
and Riccabocca, though by no means addicted
to superstition, still had a certain creep of the
flesh whenever he thought of his foe.
</p>

<p>
But Riccabocca&mdash;than whom no man was more
physically brave, and no man, in some respects,
more morally timid&mdash;feared the Count less as a
foe than as a gallant. He remembered his kinsman's
surpassing beauty&mdash;the power he had obtained
over women. He knew him versed in
every art that corrupts, and void of all the conscience
that deters. And Riccabocca had unhappily
nursed himself into so poor an estimate of
the female character, that even the pure and lofty
nature of Violante did not seem to him a sufficient
safeguard against the craft and determination of
a practiced and remorseless intriguer. But of all
the precautions he could take, none appeared more
likely to conduce to safety, than his establishing
a friendly communication with one who professed
to be able to get at all the Count's plans and
movements, and who could apprise Riccabocca
at once should his retreat be discovered. <q>Forewarned
is forearmed,</q> said he to himself, in one
of the proverbs common to all nations. However,
as with his usual sagacity he came to reflect
upon the alarming intelligence conveyed to
him by Randal, viz., that the Count sought his
daughter's hand, he divined that there was some
strong personal interest under such ambition;
and what could be that interest save the probability
of Riccabocca's ultimate admission to the
Imperial grace, and the Count's desire to assure
himself of the heritage to an estate that he might
be permitted to retain no more? Riccabocca
was not indeed aware of the condition (not according
to usual customs in Austria) on which
the Count held the forfeited domains. He knew
not that they had been granted merely on pleasure;
but he was too well aware of Peschiera's
nature to suppose that he would woo a bride
without a dower, or be moved by remorse in any
overture of reconciliation. He felt assured, too&mdash;and
this increased all his fears&mdash;that Peschiera
would never venture to seek an interview
himself; all the Count's designs on Violante
would be dark, secret, and clandestine. He was
perplexed and tormented by the doubt, whether
or not to express openly to Violante his apprehensions
of the nature of the danger to be apprehended.
He had told her vaguely that it was
for her sake that he desired secrecy and concealment.
But that might mean any thing; what
danger to himself would not menace her? Yet
to say more was so contrary to a man of his
Italian notions and Machiavellian maxims! To
say to a young girl, <q>There is a man come over
to England on purpose to woo and win you.
For Heaven's sake take care of him; he is diabolically
handsome; he never fails where he
sets his heart,</q>&mdash;<q>Cospetto!</q> cried the doctor,
aloud, as these admonitions shaped themselves
to speech in the camera-obscura of his brain;
<q>such a warning would have undone a Cornelia
while she was yet an innocent spinster.</q> No,
he resolved to say nothing to Violante of the
Count's intention, only to keep guard, and make
himself and Jackeymo all eyes and all ears.
</p>

<p>
The house Randal had selected pleased Riccabocca
at first glance. It stood alone, upon a
little eminence; its upper windows commanded
the high road. It had been a school, and was
surrounded by high walls, which contained a
garden and lawn sufficiently large for exercise.
The garden doors were thick, fortified by strong
bolts, and had a little wicket lattice, shut and
opened at pleasure, from which Jackeymo could
inspect all visitors before he permitted them to
enter.
</p>

<p>
An old female servant from the neighborhood
was cautiously hired; Riccabocca renounced
his Italian name, and abjured his origin. He
spoke English sufficiently well to think he could
pass as an Englishman. He called himself Mr.
Richmouth (a liberal translation of Riccabocca).
He bought a blunderbuss, two pair of pistols,
and a huge house-dog. Thus provided for, he
allowed Jackeymo to write a line to Randal and
communicate his arrival.
</p>

<p>
Randal lost no time in calling. With his usual
<pb n='373'/><anchor id='Pg373'/>
adaptability and his powers of dissimulation he
contrived easily to please Mrs. Riccabocca, and
to increase the good opinion the exile was disposed
to form of him. He engaged Violante in
conversation on Italy and its poets. He promised
to buy her books. He began, though more
distantly than he could have desired&mdash;for her
sweet stateliness awed him in spite of himself&mdash;the
preliminaries of courtship. He established
himself at once as a familiar guest, riding down
daily in the dusk of evening, after the toils of
office, and retiring at night. In four or five days
he thought he had made great progress with all.
Riccabocca watched him narrowly, and grew
absorbed in thought after every visit. At length
one night, when he and Mrs. Riccabocca were
alone in the drawing-room, Violante having retired
to rest, he thus spoke as he filled his pipe:
</p>

<p>
<q>Happy is the man who has no children!
Thrice happy he who has no girls!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>My dear Alphonso!</q> said the wife, looking
up from the wristband to which she was attaching
a neat mother-o'-pearl button. She said no
more; it was the sharpest rebuke she was in
the custom of administering to her husband's
cynical and odious observations. Riccabocca
lighted his pipe with a thread paper, gave three
great puffs, and resumed.
</p>

<p>
<q>One blunderbuss, four pistols, and a house-dog
called Pompey, who would have made mincemeat
of Julius Cæsar!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He certainly eats a great deal, does Pompey!</q>
said Mrs. Riccabocca, simply. <q>But if
he relieves your mind!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He does not relieve it in the least, ma'am,</q>
groaned Riccabocca: <q>and that is the point I
was coming to. This is a most harassing life,
and a most undignified life. And I who have
only asked from Heaven dignity and repose!
But, if Violante were once married, I should
want neither blunderbuss, pistol, nor Pompey.
And it is that which would relieve my mind, <foreign rend='italic'>cara
mia</foreign>;&mdash;Pompey only relieves my larder!</q>
</p>

<p>
Now Riccabocca had been more communicative
to Jemima than he had been to Violante.
Having once trusted her with one secret, he had
every motive to trust her with another; and he
had accordingly spoken out his fears of the Count
di Peschiera. Therefore she answered, laying
down the work, and taking her husband's hand
tenderly:
</p>

<p>
<q>Indeed, my love, since you dread so much
(though I own that I must think unreasonably)
this wicked, dangerous man, it would be the happiest
thing in the world to see dear Violante
well married; because, you see, if she is married
to one person, she can not be married to
another; and all fear of this Count, as you say,
would be at an end.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You can not express yourself better. It is a
great comfort to unbosom one's self to a wife,
after all!</q> quoth Riccabocca.
</p>

<p>
<q>But,</q> said the wife, after a grateful kiss:
<q>but where and how can we find a husband
suitable to the rank of your daughter?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>There&mdash;there&mdash;there,</q> cried Riccabocca,
pushing back his chair to the farther end of the
room: <q>that comes of unbosoming one's self!
Out flies one's secret; it is opening the lid of
Pandora's box; one is betrayed, ruined, undone!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why? there's not a soul that can hear us!</q>
said Mrs. Riccabocca, soothingly.
</p>

<p>
<q>That's chance, ma'am! If you once contract
the habit of blabbing out a secret when nobody's
by, how on earth can you resist it when
you have the pleasurable excitement of telling it
to all the world? Vanity, vanity&mdash;woman's vanity!
Woman never could withstand rank&mdash;never!</q>
The Doctor went on railing for a quarter
of an hour, and was very reluctantly appeased
by Mrs. Riccabocca's repeated and tearful assurances
that she would never even whisper to
herself that her husband had ever held any other
rank than that of Doctor. Riccabocca, with a
dubious shake of the head, renewed:
</p>

<p>
<q>I have done with all pomp and pretension.
Besides, the young man is a born gentleman; he
seems in good circumstances; he has energy
and latent ambition; he is akin to L'Estrange's
intimate friend; he seems attached to Violante.
I don't think it probable that we could do better.
Nay, if Peschiera fears that I shall be restored
to my country, and I learn the wherefore, and
the ground to take, through this young man&mdash;why,
gratitude is the first virtue of the noble!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You speak, then, of Mr. Leslie?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>To be sure&mdash;of whom else?</q>
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Riccabocca leaned her cheek on her hand,
thoughtfully: <q>Now, you have told me <emph>that</emph>, I
will observe him with different eyes.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><foreign rend='italic'>Anima mia!</foreign> I don't see how the difference
of your eyes will alter the object they look upon!</q>
grumbled Riccabocca, shaking the ashes out of
his pipe.
</p>

<p>
<q>The object alters when we see it in a different
point of view!</q> replied Jemima, modestly.
<q>This thread does very well when I look at it
in order to sew a button on, but I should say it
would never do to tie up Pompey in his kennel.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Reasoning by illustration, upon my soul!</q>
ejaculated Riccabocca, amazed.
</p>

<p>
<q>And,</q> continued Jemima, <q>when I am to
regard one who is to constitute the happiness of
that dear child, and for life, can I regard him as
I would the pleasantest guest of an evening?
Ah, trust me, Alphonso&mdash;I don't pretend to be
wise like you&mdash;but, when a woman considers
what a man is likely to prove to woman&mdash;his
sincerity&mdash;his honor&mdash;his heart&mdash;oh, trust me,
she is wiser than the wisest man!</q>
</p>

<p>
Riccabocca continued to gaze on Jemima with
unaffected admiration and surprise. And, certainly,
to use his phrase, since he had unbosomed
himself to his better half&mdash;since he had confided
in her, consulted with her, her sense had seemed
to quicken&mdash;her whole mind to expand.
</p>

<p>
<q>My dear,</q> said the sage. <q>I vow and declare
that Machiavelli was a fool to you. And
I have been as dull as the chair I sit upon, to
deny myself so many years the comfort and counsel
<pb n='374'/><anchor id='Pg374'/>
of such a&mdash;but, <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>corpo di Baccho</foreign>! forget
all about rank; and so now to bed.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>One must not holloa till one's out of the
wood,</q> muttered the ungrateful, suspicious villain,
as he lighted the chamber candle.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter III.</head>

<p>
Riccabocca could not confine himself to the
precincts within the walls to which he condemned
Violante. Resuming his spectacles, and wrapped
in his cloak, he occasionally sallied forth upon a
kind of outwatch or reconnoitring expedition&mdash;restricting
himself, however, to the immediate
neighborhood, and never going quite out of sight
of his house. His favorite walk was to the summit
of a hillock overgrown with stunted brushwood.
Here he would seat himself musingly,
often till the hoofs of Randal's horse rang on the
winding road, as the sun set, over fading herbage,
red and vaporous, in autumnal skies. Just
below the hillock, and not two hundred yards
from his own house, was the only other habitation
in view&mdash;a charming, thoroughly English
cottage, though somewhat imitated from the
Swiss&mdash;with gable ends, thatched roof, and pretty
projecting casements, opening through creepers
and climbing roses. From his height he commanded
the gardens of this cottage, and his eye
of artist was pleased, from the first sight, with
the beauty which some exquisite taste had given
to the ground. Even in that cheerless season
of the year, the garden wore a summer smile;
the evergreens were so bright and various, and
the few flowers still left, so hardy and so healthful.
Facing the south, a colonnade, or covered
gallery, of rustic woodwork had been formed,
and creeping plants, lately set, were already beginning
to clothe its columns. Opposite to this
colonnade there was a fountain which reminded
Riccabocca of his own at the deserted Casino.
It was, indeed, singularly like it: the same circular
shape, the same girdle of flowers around it.
But the jet from it varied every day&mdash;fantastic
and multiform, like the sports of a Naïad&mdash;sometimes
shooting up like a tree, sometimes shaped
as a convolvulus, sometimes tossing from its silver
spray a flower of vermilion, or a fruit of
gold&mdash;as if at play with its toy like a happy
child. And near the fountain was a large aviary,
large enough to inclose a tree. The Italian
could just catch a gleam of rich color from the
wings of the birds, as they glanced to and fro
within the net-work, and could hear their songs,
contrasting the silence of the free populace of
air, whom the coming winter had already stilled.
</p>

<p>
Riccabocca's eye, so alive to all aspects of
beauty, luxuriated in the view of this garden.
Its pleasantness had a charm that stole him from
his anxious fear and melancholy memories.
</p>

<p>
He never saw but two forms within the demesnes,
and he could not distinguish their features.
One was a woman, who seemed to him of
staid manner and homely appearance; she was
seen but rarely. The other a man, often pacing
to and fro the colonnade, with frequent pauses
before the playful fountain, or the birds that sang
louder as he approached. This latter form would
then disappear within a room, the glass door of
which was at the extreme end of the colonnade,
and if the door were left open, Riccabocca could
catch a glimpse of the figure bending over a
table covered with books.
</p>

<p>
Always, however, before the sun set, the man
would step forth more briskly, and occupy himself
with the garden, often working at it with
good heart, as if at a task of delight; and, then,
too, the woman would come out, and stand by, as
if talking to her companion. Riccabocca's curiosity
grew aroused. He bade Jemima inquire
of the old maid-servant who lived at the cottage,
and heard that its owner was a Mr. Oran&mdash;a
quiet gentleman, and fond of his book.
</p>

<p>
While Riccabocca thus amused himself, Randal
had not been prevented, either by his official
cares or his schemes on Violante's heart and
fortune, from furthering the project that was to
unite Frank Hazeldean and Beatrice di Negra.
Indeed, as to the first, a ray of hope was sufficient
to fire the ardent and unsuspecting lover. And
Randal's artful representation of Mrs. Hazeldean's
conversation with him, removed all fear
of parental displeasure from a mind always too
disposed to give itself up to the temptation of the
moment. Beatrice, though her feelings for Frank
were not those of love, became more and more
influenced by Randal's arguments and representations,
the more especially as her brother grew
morose, and even menacing, as days slipt on, and
she could give no clew to the retreat of those
whom he sought for. Her debts, too, were really
urgent. As Randal's profound knowledge of
human infirmity had shrewdly conjectured, the
scruples of honor and pride, that had made her
declare she would not bring to a husband her
own incumbrances, began to yield to the pressure
of necessity. She listened already, with but faint
objections, when Randal urged her not to wait for
the uncertain discovery that was to secure her
dowry, but by a private marriage with Frank
escape at once into freedom and security. While,
though he had first held out to young Hazeldean
the inducement of Beatrice's dowry as reason of
self-justification in the eyes of the Squire, it was
still easier to drop that inducement, which had
always rather damped than fired the high spirit
and generous heart of the poor Guardsman. And
Randal could conscientiously say, that when he
had asked the Squire if he expected fortune with
Frank's bride, the Squire had replied, <q>I don't
care.</q> Thus encouraged by his friend and his
own heart, and the softening manner of a woman
who might have charmed many a colder, and
fooled many a wiser man, Frank rapidly yielded
to the snares held out for his perdition. And
though as yet he honestly shrank from proposing
to Beatrice or himself a marriage without the
consent, and even the knowledge of his parents,
yet Randal was quite content to leave a nature,
however good, so thoroughly impulsive and undisciplined,
to the influences of the first strong
<pb n='375'/><anchor id='Pg375'/>
passion it had ever known. Meanwhile, it was
so easy to dissuade Frank from even giving a
hint to the folks at home. <q>For,</q> said the wily
and able traitor, <q>though we may be sure of
Mrs. Hazeldean's consent, and her power over
your father, when the step is once taken, yet we
can not count for certain on the Squire&mdash;he is so
choleric and hasty. He might hurry to town&mdash;see
Madame di Negra, blurt out some compassionate,
rude expressions which would wake her
resentment, and cause her instant rejection. And
it might be too late if he repented afterward&mdash;as
he would be sure to do.</q>
</p>

<p>
Meanwhile Randal Leslie gave a dinner at the
Clarendon Hotel (an extravagance most contrary
to his habits), and invited Frank, Mr. Borrowwell,
and Baron Levy.
</p>

<p>
But this house-spider, which glided with so
much ease after its flies, through webs so numerous
and mazy, had yet to amuse Madame di
Negra with assurances that the fugitives sought
for would sooner or later be discovered. Though
Randal baffled and eluded her suspicion that he
was already acquainted with the exiles (<q>the
persons he had thought of were,</q> he said,
<q>quite different from her description;</q> and he
even presented to her an old singing-master, and
a sallow-faced daughter, as the Italians who had
caused his mistake), it was necessary for Beatrice
to prove the sincerity of the aid she had promised
to her brother, and to introduce Randal to the
Count. It was no less desirable to Randal to
know, and even win the confidence of this man&mdash;his
rival.
</p>

<p>
The two met at Madame di Negra's house.
There is something very strange, and almost
mesmerical, in the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>rapport</foreign> between two evil
natures. Bring two honest men together, and
it is ten to one if they recognize each other as
honest; differences in temper, manner, even
politics, may make each misjudge the other.
But bring together two men, unprincipled and
perverted&mdash;men who, if born in a cellar, would
have been food for the hulks or gallows&mdash;and
they recognize each other by instant sympathy.
The eyes of Franzini, Count of Peschiera, and
Randal Leslie no sooner met, than a gleam of
intelligence shot from both. They talked on indifferent
subjects&mdash;weather, gossip, politics&mdash;what
not. They bowed and they smiled; but,
all the while, each was watching, plumbing the
other's heart; each measuring his strength with
his companion; each inly saying, <q>This is a
very remarkable rascal; am I a match for him?</q>
It was at dinner they met; and, following the
English fashion, Madame di Negra left them
alone with their wine.
</p>

<p>
Then, for the first time, Count di Peschiera
cautiously and adroitly made a covered push toward
the object of the meeting.
</p>

<p>
<q>You have never been abroad, my dear sir?
You must contrive to visit me at Vienna. I grant
the splendor of your London world; but, honestly
speaking, it wants the freedom of ours&mdash;a
freedom which unites gayety with polish. For
as your society is mixed, there are pretension
and effort with those who have no right to be in
it, and artificial condescension and chilling arrogance
with those who have to keep their inferiors
at a certain distance. With us, all being
of fixed rank and acknowledged birth, familiarity
is at once established. Hence,</q> added the Count,
with his French lively smile&mdash;<q>hence, there is
no place like Vienna for a young man&mdash;no place
like Vienna for <hi rend='italic'>bonnes fortunes</hi>.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Those make the paradise of the idle,</q> replied
Randal, <q>but the purgatory of the busy. I confess
frankly to you, my dear Count, that I have
as little of the leisure which becomes the aspirer
to <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>bonnes fortunes</foreign> as I have the personal
graces which obtain them without an effort;</q> and he
inclined his head as in compliment.
</p>

<p>
<q>So,</q> thought the Count, <q>woman is not his
weak side. What is?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Morbleu!</foreign> my dear Mr. Leslie&mdash;had I
thought as you do some years since, I had saved myself
from many a trouble. After all, Ambition is the
best mistress to woo; for with her there is always
the hope, and never the possession.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ambition, Count,</q> replied Randal, still
guarding himself in dry sententiousness, <q>is the
luxury of the rich, and the necessity of the poor.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Aha,</q> thought the Count, <q>it comes, as I
anticipated from the first&mdash;comes to the bribe.</q>
He passed the wine to Randal, filling his own
glass, and draining it carelessly: <q><foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Sur mon âme,
mon cher</foreign>,</q> said the Count, <q>luxury is ever pleasanter
than necessity; and I am resolved at least
to give ambition a trial&mdash;<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>je vais me réfugier dans
le sein du bonheur domestique</foreign>&mdash;a married life and
a settled home. <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Peste!</foreign> If it were not for
ambition, one would die of ennui. Apropos, my
dear sir, I have to thank you for promising
my sister your aid in finding a near and dear
kinsman of mine, who has taken refuge in your
country, and hides himself even from me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I should be most happy to assist in your
search. As yet, however, I have only to regret
that all my good wishes are fruitless. I should
have thought, however, that a man of such rank
had been easily found, even through the medium
of your own embassador.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Our own embassador is no very warm friend
of mine; and the rank would be no clew, for it
is clear that my kinsman has never assumed it
since he quitted his country.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He quitted it, I understand, not exactly from
choice,</q> said Randal, smiling. <q>Pardon my
freedom and curiosity, but will you explain to
me a little more than I learn from English rumor
(which never accurately reports upon foreign
matters still more notorious), how a person who
had so much to lose, and so little to win, by
revolution, could put himself into the same crazy
boat with a crew of hare-brained adventurers and
visionary professors.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Professors!</q> repeated the Count; <q>I think
you have hit on the very answer to your question;
not but what men of high birth were as
mad as the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>canaille</foreign>. I am the more willing to
<pb n='376'/><anchor id='Pg376'/>
gratify your curiosity, since it will perhaps serve
to guide your kind search in my favor. You
must know, then, that my kinsman was not born
the heir to the rank he obtained. He was but
a distant relation to the head of the house which
he afterward represented. Brought up in an
Italian university, he was distinguished for his
learning and his eccentricities. There, too, I
suppose, brooding over old wives' tales about
freedom, and so forth, he contracted his <foreign rend='italic'>carbonaro</foreign>,
chimerical notions for the independence of
Italy. Suddenly, by three deaths, he was elevated,
while yet young, to a station and honors
which might have satisfied any man in his senses.
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Que diable!</foreign> what could the independence of
Italy do for <emph>him</emph>! He and I were cousins; we had
played together as boys; but our lives had been
separated till his succession to rank brought us
necessarily together. We became exceedingly
intimate. And you may judge how I loved
him,</q> said the Count, averting his eyes slightly
from Randal's quiet, watchful gaze, <q>when I
add, that I forgave him for enjoying a heritage
that, but for him, had been mine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, you were next heir?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And it is a hard trial to be very near a great
fortune, and yet just to miss it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>True,</q> cried Randal, almost impetuously.
The Count now raised his eyes, and again the
two men looked into each other's souls.
</p>

<p>
<q>Harder still, perhaps,</q> resumed the Count,
after a short pause&mdash;<q>harder still might it have
been to some men to forgive the rival as well as
the heir.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Rival! How?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A lady, who had been destined by her parents
to myself, though we had never, I own,
been formally betrothed, became the wife of my
kinsman.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Did he know of your pretensions?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I do him the justice to say he did not. He
saw and fell in love with the young lady I speak
of. Her parents were dazzled. Her father sent
for me. He apologized&mdash;he explained; he set
before me, mildly enough, certain youthful imprudences
or errors of my own, as an excuse for
his change of mind; and he asked me not only
to resign all hope of his daughter, but to conceal
from her new suitor that I had ever ventured
to hope.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And you consented?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I consented.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>That was generous. You must indeed have
been much attached to your kinsman. As a
lover I can not comprehend it; perhaps, my
dear Count, you may enable me to understand
it better&mdash;as a man of the world.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> said the Count, with his most <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>roué</foreign>
air, <q>I suppose we <emph>are</emph> both men of the world?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><emph>Both!</emph> certainly,</q> replied Randal, just in
the tone which Peachum might have used in
courting the confidence of Lockit.
</p>

<p>
<q>As a man of the world, then, I own,</q> said
the Count, playing with the rings on his fingers,
<q>that if I could not marry the lady myself (and
that seemed to me clear), it was very natural
that I should wish to see her married to my
wealthy kinsman.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Very natural; it might bring your wealthy
kinsman and yourself still closer together.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>This is really a very clever fellow!</q> thought
the Count, but he made no direct reply.
</p>

<p>
<q><foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Enfin</foreign>, to cut short a long story, my cousin
afterward got entangled in attempts, the failure
of which is historically known. His projects
were detected&mdash;himself denounced. He fled,
and the Emperor, in sequestrating his estates,
was pleased, with rare and singular clemency,
to permit me, as his nearest kinsman, to enjoy
the revenues of half those estates during the
royal pleasure; nor was the other half formally
confiscated. It was no doubt his Majesty's desire
not to extinguish a great Italian name; and
if my cousin and his child died in exile, why, of
that name, I, a loyal subject of Austria&mdash;I,
Franzini, Count di Peschiera, would become the
representative. Such, in a similar case, has
been sometimes the Russian policy toward Polish
insurgents.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I comprehend perfectly; and I can also conceive
that you, in profiting so largely, though
so justly, by the fall of your kinsman, may have
been exposed to much unpopularity&mdash;even to
painful suspicion.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Entre nous, mon cher</foreign>, I care not a stiver
for popularity; and as to suspicion, who is he that
can escape from the calumny of the envious?
But, unquestionably, it would be most desirable
to unite the divided members of our house; and
this union I can now effect, by the consent of
the Emperor to my marriage with my kinsman's
daughter. You see, therefore, why I have so
great an interest in this research?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>By the marriage articles you could no doubt
secure the retention of the half you hold; and
if you survive your kinsman, you would enjoy
the whole. A most desirable marriage; and,
if made, I suppose that would suffice to obtain
your cousin's amnesty and grace?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You say it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But even without such marriage, since the
Emperor's clemency has been extended to so
many of the proscribed, it is perhaps probable
that your cousin might be restored?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It once seemed to me possible,</q> said the
Count, reluctantly, <q>but since I have been in
England, I think not. The recent revolution in
France, the democratic spirit rising in Europe,
tend to throw back the cause of a proscribed
rebel. England swarms with revolutionists;
my cousin's residence in this country is in itself
suspicious. The suspicion is increased by his
strange seclusion. There are many Italians
here who would aver that they had met with
him, and that he was still engaged in revolutionary
projects.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Aver&mdash;untruly.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Ma foi</foreign>&mdash;it comes to the same
thing; <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>les
absents ont toujours tort</foreign>. I speak to a man of
the world. No; without some such guarantee
<pb n='377'/><anchor id='Pg377'/>
for his faith, as his daughter's marriage with
myself would give, his recall is improbable.
By the heaven above us, it shall be <emph>impossible</emph>!</q>
The Count rose as he said this&mdash;rose as if the
mask of simulation had fairly fallen from the
visage of crime&mdash;rose tall and towering, a very
image of masculine power and strength, beside
the slight bended form and sickly face of the intellectual
schemer. Randal was startled; but,
rising also, he said, carelessly,
</p>

<p>
<q>What if this guarantee can no longer be
given? what if, in despair of return, and in resignation
to his altered fortunes, your cousin has
already married his daughter to some English
suitor?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, that would indeed be, next to my own
marriage with her, the most fortunate thing that
could happen to myself.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How? I don't understand!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, if my cousin has so abjured his birthright,
and forsworn his rank&mdash;if this heritage,
which is so dangerous from its grandeur, pass,
in case of his pardon, to some obscure Englishman&mdash;a
foreigner&mdash;a native of a country that
has no ties with ours&mdash;a country that is the very
refuge of levelers and Carbonari&mdash;<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>mort de ma
vie</foreign>&mdash;do you think that such would not annihilate
all chance of my cousin's restoration, and be an
excuse even to the eyes of Italy for formally
conferring the sequestrated estates on an Italian?
No; unless, indeed, the girl were to marry
an Englishman of such name and birth and
connection as would in themselves be a guarantee
(and how in poverty is this likely?), I should
go back to Vienna with a light heart, if I could
say, <q>My kinswoman is an Englishman's wife&mdash;shall
her children be the heirs to a house so
renowned for its lineage, and so formidable for
its wealth?</q> <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>Parbleu!</foreign> if my cousin were but
an adventurer, or merely a professor, he had
been pardoned long ago. The great enjoy the
honor not to be pardoned easily.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal fell into deep but brief thought. The
Count observed him, not face to face, but by the
reflection of an opposite mirror. <q>This man
knows something; this man is deliberating; this
man can help me,</q> thought the Count.
</p>

<p>
But Randal said nothing to confirm these hypotheses.
Recovering from his abstraction, he
expressed courteously his satisfaction at the
Count's prospects either way. <q>And since,
after all,</q> he added, <q>you mean so well to your
cousin, it occurs to me that you might discover
him by a very simple English process.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Advertise that if he will come to some place
appointed, he will hear of something to his advantage.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Count shook his head. <q>He would suspect
me, and not come.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But he was intimate with you. He joined
an insurrection; you were more prudent. You
did not injure him, though you may have benefited
yourself. Why should he shun you?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The conspirators forgive none who do not
conspire; besides, to speak frankly, he thought
I injured him.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Could you not conciliate him through his
wife&mdash;whom&mdash;you resigned to him.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>She is dead&mdash;died before he left the country.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, that is unlucky! Still, I think an advertisement
might do good. Allow me to reflect
on that subject. Shall we now join Madame
la Marquise?</q>
</p>

<p>
On re-entering the drawing-room, the gentlemen
found Beatrice in full dress, seated by the
fire, and reading so intently that she did not remark
them enter.
</p>

<p>
<q>What so interests you, <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>ma sœur</foreign>?&mdash;the
last novel by Balzac, no doubt?</q>
</p>

<p>
Beatrice started, and, looking up, showed eyes
that were full of tears. <q>Oh, no! no picture of
miserable, vicious Parisian life. This is beautiful;
there is <hi rend='italic'>soul</hi> here.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal took up the book which the Marchesa
laid down; it was the same that had charmed
the circle at Hazeldean&mdash;charmed the innocent
and fresh-hearted&mdash;charmed now the wearied
and tempted votaress of the world.
</p>

<p>
<q>Hum,</q> murmured Randal; <q>the Parson
was right. This is power&mdash;a sort of a power.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How I should like to know the author! Who
can he be&mdash;can you guess?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Not I. Some old pedant in spectacles.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I think not&mdash;I am sure not. Here beats
a heart I have ever tried to find, and never
found.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>la naïve enfant</foreign>!</q> cried the Count;
<q><foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>comme son imagination s'égare en rêves
enchantés</foreign>.
And to think that, while you talk like
an Arcadian, you are dressed like a princess.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, I forgot&mdash;the Austrian embassador's.
I shall not go to-night. This book unfits me for
the artificial world.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Just as you will, my sister. I shall go. I
dislike the man, and he me; but ceremonies before
men!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You are going to the Austrian Embassy?</q>
said Randal. <q>I too shall be there. We shall
meet.</q> And he took his leave.
</p>

<p>
<q>I like your young friend prodigiously,</q> said
the Count, yawning. <q>I am sure that he knows
of the lost birds, and will stand to them like a
pointer, if I can but make it his interest to do so.
We shall see.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter IV.</head>

<p>
Randal arrived at the embassador's before the
Count, and contrived to mix with the young
noblemen attached to the embassy, and to whom
he was known. Standing among these was a
young Austrian, on his travels, of very high birth,
and with an air of noble grace that suited the
ideal of the old German chivalry. Randal was
presented to him, and after some talk on general
topics, observed. <q>By the way, Prince, there is
now in London a countryman of yours, with whom
you are doubtless familiarly acquainted&mdash;the
Count di Peschiera.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He is no countryman of mine. He is an
<pb n='378'/><anchor id='Pg378'/>
Italian. I know him but by sight and by name,</q>
said the Prince, stiffly.
</p>

<p>
<q>He is of very ancient birth, I believe.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Unquestionably. His ancestors were gentlemen.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And very rich.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Indeed! I have understood the contrary.
He enjoys, it is true, a large revenue.</q>
</p>

<p>
A young <foreign rend='italic'>attaché</foreign>, less discreet than the Prince,
here observed, <q>Oh, Peschiera!&mdash;Poor fellow,
he is too fond of play to be rich.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And there is some chance that the kinsman
whose revenue he holds may obtain his pardon,
and re-enter into possession of his fortunes&mdash;so I
hear, at least,</q> said Randal artfully.
</p>

<p>
<q>I shall be glad if it be true,</q> said the Prince,
with decision; <q>and I speak the common sentiment
at Vienna. That kinsman had a noble
spirit, and was, I believe, equally duped and betrayed.
Pardon me, sir; but we Austrians are
not so bad as we are painted. Have you ever
met in England the kinsman you speak of?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Never, though he is supposed to reside here;
and the Count tells me that he has a daughter.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The Count&mdash;ha! I heard something of a
scheme&mdash;a wager of that&mdash;that Count's&mdash;a
daughter. Poor girl! I hope she will escape
his pursuit; for, no doubt, he pursues her.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Possibly she may already have married an
Englishman.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I trust not,</q> said the Prince, seriously; <q>that
might at present be a serious obstacle to her
father's return.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You think so?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>There can be no doubt of it,</q> interposed the
<foreign rend='italic'>attaché</foreign>, with a grand and positive air; <q>unless,
indeed, the Englishman were of a rank equal to
her own.</q>
</p>

<p>
Here there was a slight, well-bred murmur
and buzz at the doors; for the Count di Peschiera
himself was announced; and as he entered, his
presence was so striking, and his beauty so dazzling,
that whatever there might be to the prejudice
of his character, it seemed instantly effaced
or forgotten in that irresistible admiration
which it is the prerogative of personal attributes
alone to create.
</p>

<p>
The Prince, with a slight curve of his lip at
the groups that collected round the Count, turned
to Randal and said, <q>Can you tell me if a distinguished
countryman of yours is in England&mdash;Lord
L'Estrange?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No, Prince&mdash;he is not. You know him?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He is acquainted with the Count's kinsman;
and perhaps from him you have learned to think
so highly of that kinsman?</q>
</p>

<p>
The Prince bowed, and answered as he moved
away. <q>When a man of high honor vouches
for another he commands the belief of all.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly,</q> soliloquized Randal, <q>I must not
be precipitate. I was very nearly falling into a
terrible trap. If I were to marry the girl, and
only, by so doing, settle away her inheritance on
Peschiera!&mdash;How hard it is to be sufficiently
cautious in this world!</q>
</p>

<p>
While thus meditating, a member of Parliament
tapped him on the shoulder.
</p>

<p>
<q>Melancholy, Leslie! I lay a wager I guess
your thoughts.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Guess,</q> answered Randal.
</p>

<p>
<q>You were thinking of the place you are so
soon to lose.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Soon to lose!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, if ministers go out, you could hardly
keep it, I suppose.</q>
</p>

<p>
This ominous and horrid member of Parliament,
Squire Hazeldean's favorite county member,
Sir John, was one of these legislators especially
odious to officials&mdash;an independent 'large-acred'
member, who would no more take office
himself than he would cut down the oaks in his
park, and who had no bowels of human feeling
for those who had opposite tastes and less magnificent
means.
</p>

<p>
<q>Hem!</q> said Randal, rather surlily. <q>In the
first place, Sir John, ministers are not going out.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, yes, they will go. You know I vote
with them generally, and would willingly keep
them in; but they are men of honor and spirit;
and if they can't carry their measures, they must
resign; otherwise, by Jove, I would turn round
and vote them out myself!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I have no doubt you would, Sir John; you
are quite capable of it; that rests with you and
your constituents. But even if ministers did go
out, I am but a poor subaltern in a public office.
I am no minister&mdash;why should I go out, too?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why? Hang it, Leslie, you are laughing
at me. A young fellow like you could never be
mean enough to stay in, under the very men who
drove out your friend Egerton!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It is not usual for those in the public offices
to retire with every change of Government.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Certainly not; but always those who are the
relations of a retiring minister&mdash;always those
who have been regarded as politicians, and who
mean to enter Parliament, as of course you will
do at the next election. But you know that as well
as I do&mdash;you who are so decided a politician&mdash;the
writer of that admirable pamphlet! I should
not like to tell my friend Hazeldean, who has a
sincere interest in you, that you ever doubted on
a question of honor as plain as your A, B, C.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Indeed, Sir John,</q> said Randal, recovering
his suavity, while he inly breathed a dire anathema
on his county member, <q>I am so new to
these things, that what you say never struck
me before. No doubt you must be right; at all
events, I can not have a better guide and adviser
than Mr. Egerton himself.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No, certainly&mdash;perfect gentleman, Egerton!
I wish we could make it up with him and
Hazeldean.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Randal</hi> (sighing).&mdash;<q>Ah, I wish we could!</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Sir John.</hi>&mdash;<q>And some chance of it now; for
the time is coming when all true men of the old
school must stick together.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Randal.</hi>&mdash;<q>Wisely, admirably said, my dear
<pb n='379'/><anchor id='Pg379'/>
Sir John. But pardon me, I must pay my respects
to the embassador.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal escaped, and, passing on, saw the embassador
himself in the next room, conferring in
a corner with Audley Egerton. The embassador
seemed very grave&mdash;Egerton calm and impenetrable,
as usual. Presently the Count passed
by, and the embassador bowed to him very
stiffly.
</p>

<p>
As Randal, some time later, was searching
for his cloak below, Audley Egerton unexpectedly
joined him.
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, Leslie,</q> said the minister with more
kindness than usual, <q>if you don't think the
night air too cold for you, let us walk home together.
I have sent away the carriage.</q>
</p>

<p>
This condescension in his patron was so singular
that it quite startled Randal, and gave him a
presentiment of some evil. When they were in
the street, Egerton, after a pause, began&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>My dear Mr. Leslie, it was my hope and
belief that I had provided for you at least a competence;
and that I might open to you, later, a
career yet more brilliant. Hush! I don't doubt
your gratitude; let me proceed. There is a
possible chance, after certain decisions that the
Government have come to, that we may be beaten
in the House of Commons, and of course resign.
I tell you this beforehand, for I wish you
to have time to consider what, in that case,
would be your best course. My power of serving
you may then probably be over. It would,
no doubt (seeing our close connection, and my
views with regard to your future being so well
known)&mdash;no doubt, be expected that you should
give up the place you hold, and follow my fortunes
for good or ill. But as I have no personal
enemies with the opposite party&mdash;and as I have
sufficient position in the world to uphold and
sanction your choice, whatever it may be, if you
think it more prudent to retain your place, tell
me so openly, and I think I can contrive that
you may do it without loss of character and
credit. In that case, confine your ambition
merely to rising gradually in your office, without
mixing in politics. If, on the other hand, you
should prefer to take your chance of my return
to office, and so resign your own; and, furthermore,
should commit yourself to a policy that
may then be not only in opposition, but unpopular,
I will do my best to introduce you into parliamentary
life. I can not say that I advise the
latter.</q>
</p>

<p>
Randal felt as a man feels after a severe fall&mdash;he
was literally stunned. At length he faltered out,
</p>

<p>
<q>Can you think, sir, that I should ever desert
your fortunes&mdash;your party&mdash;your cause?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>My dear Leslie,</q> replied the minister, <q>you
are too young to have committed yourself to any
men or to any party, except, indeed, in that unlucky
pamphlet. This must not be an affair of
sentiment, but of sense and reflection. Let us
say no more on the point now; but, by considering
the <foreign rend='italic'>pros</foreign> and the
<foreign rend='italic'>cons</foreign>, you can better judge
what to do, should the time for option suddenly
arrive.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But I hope that time may not come.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I hope so too, and most sincerely,</q> said the
minister, with deliberate and genuine emphasis.
</p>

<p>
<q>What could be so bad for the country?</q>
ejaculated Randal. <q>It does not seem to me
possible, in the nature of things, that you and
your party should ever go out!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And when we are once out, there will be
plenty of wiseacres to say it is out of the nature
of things that we should ever come in again.
Here we are at the door.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter V.</head>

<p>
Randal passed a sleepless night; but, indeed,
he was one of those persons who neither need,
nor are accustomed to much sleep. However,
toward morning, when dreams are said to be
prophetic, he fell into a most delightful slumber&mdash;a
slumber peopled by visions fitted to lure on,
through labyrinths of law, predestined chancellors,
or wreck upon the rocks of glory the inebriate
souls of youthful ensigns&mdash;dreams from which
Rood Hall emerged crowned with the towers of
Belvoir or Raby, and looking over subject lands
and manors wrested from the nefarious usurpation
of Thornhills and Hazeldeans&mdash;dreams in
which Audley Egerton's gold and power&mdash;rooms
in Downing-street, and saloons in Grosvenor-square&mdash;had
passed away to the smiling dreamer,
as the empire of Chaldæa passed to Darius
the Median. Why visions so belying the gloomy
and anxious thoughts that preceded them should
visit the pillow of Randal Leslie, surpasses my
philosophy to conjecture. He yielded, however,
passively to their spell, and was startled to hear
the clock strike eleven as he descended the stairs
to breakfast. He was vexed at the lateness of
the hour, for he had meant to have taken advantage
of the unwonted softness of Egerton, and
drawn therefrom some promises or proffers to
cheer the prospects which the minister had so
chillingly expanded before him the preceding
night. And it was only at breakfast that he
usually found the opportunity of private conference
with his busy patron. But Audley Egerton
would be sure to have sallied forth&mdash;and so he
had&mdash;only Randal was surprised to hear that he
had gone out in his carriage, instead of on foot,
as was his habit. Randal soon dispatched his
solitary meal, and with a new and sudden affection
for his office, thitherward bent his way.
As he passed through Piccadilly, he heard behind
a voice that had lately become familiar to
him, and, turning round, saw Baron Levy walking
side-by-side, though not arm-in-arm, with a
gentleman almost as smart as himself, but with
a jauntier step and a brisker air&mdash;a step that,
like Diomed's, as described by Shakspeare&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>Rises on the toe;&mdash;that spirit of his</q></l>
<l><q rend='post'>In aspiration lifts him from the earth.</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
Indeed, one may judge of the spirits and disposition
of a man by his ordinary gait and mien
in walking. He who habitually pursues abstract
<pb n='380'/><anchor id='Pg380'/>
thought, looks down on the ground. He
who is accustomed to sudden impulses, or is
trying to seize upon some necessary recollection,
looks up with a kind of jerk. He who is a
steady, cautious, merely practical man, walks
on deliberately, his eyes straight before him;
and even in his most musing moods, observes
things around sufficiently to avoid a porter's
knot or a butcher's tray. But the man with
strong ganglions&mdash;of pushing, lively temperament,
who, though practical, is yet speculative&mdash;the
man who is emulous and active, and ever
trying to rise in life&mdash;sanguine, alert, bold&mdash;walks
with a spring&mdash;looks rather above the
heads of his fellow-passengers&mdash;but with a
quick, easy turn of his own, which is lightly set
on his shoulders; his mouth is a little open&mdash;his
eye is bright, rather restless, but penetrative&mdash;his
port has something of defiance&mdash;his form is
erect, but without stiffness. Such was the appearance
of the Baron's companion. And as
Randal turned round at Levy's voice, the Baron
said to his companion, <q>A young man in the
first circles&mdash;you should book him for your fair
lady's parties. How d'ye do, Mr. Leslie? Let
me introduce you to Mr. Richard Avenel.</q>
Then, as he hooked his arm into Randal's, he
whispered, <q>Man of first-rate talent&mdash;monstrous
rich&mdash;has two or three parliamentary seats in
his pocket&mdash;wife gives parties&mdash;her foible.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Proud to make your acquaintance, sir,</q> said
Mr. Avenel, lifting his hat. <q>Fine day.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Rather cold, too,</q> said Leslie, who, like all
thin persons with weak digestions, was chilly
by temperament; besides, he had enough on his
mind to chill his body.
</p>

<p>
<q>So much the healthier&mdash;braces the nerves,</q>
said Mr. Avenel; <q>but you young fellows relax
the system by hot rooms and late hours.
Fond of dancing, of course, sir?</q> Then, without
waiting for Randal's negative, Mr. Richard
continued, rapidly, <q>Mrs. Avenel has a <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>soirée
dansante</foreign> on Thursday&mdash;shall be very happy to
see you in Eaton-square. Stop, I have a card;</q>
and he drew out a dozen large invitation cards,
from which he selected one, and presented it to
Randal. The Baron pressed that young gentleman's
arm, and Randal replied courteously that
it would give him great pleasure to be introduced
to Mrs. Avenel. Then, as he was not
desirous to be seen under the wing of Baron
Levy, like a pigeon under that of a hawk, he
gently extricated himself, and, pleading great
haste, walked quickly on toward his office.
</p>

<p>
<q>That young man will make a figure some
day,</q> said the Baron. <q>I don't know any one
of his age with so few prejudices. He is a connection
by marriage to Audley Egerton, who&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Audley Egerton!</q> exclaimed Mr. Avenel;
<q>d&mdash;d haughty, aristocratic, disagreeable, ungrateful
fellow!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, what do you know of him?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>He owed his first seat in parliament to the
votes of two near relations of mine, and when I
called upon him some time ago, in his office,
he absolutely ordered me out of the room.
Hang his impertinence; if ever I can pay him
off, I guess I shan't fail for want of good-will!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ordered you out of the room? That's not
like Egerton, who is civil, if formal&mdash;at least to
most men. You must have offended him in his
weak point.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>A man whom the public pays so handsomely
should have no weak point. What is Egerton's?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, he values himself on being a thorough
gentleman&mdash;a man of the nicest honor,</q> said
Levy, with a sneer. <q>You must have ruffled
his plumes there. How was it?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I forget now,</q> answered Mr. Avenel, who
was far too well versed in the London scale of
human dignities since his marriage, not to look
back with a blush at his desire of knighthood.
<q>No use bothering our heads now about the
plumes of an arrogant popinjay. To return to
the subject we were discussing. You must be
sure to let me have this money next week.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Rely on it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And you'll not let my bills get into the
market: keep them under lock and key.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>So we agreed.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It is but a temporary difficulty&mdash;royal
mourning, such nonsense&mdash;panic in trade, lest
these precious minsters go out. I shall soon
float over the troubled waters.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>By the help of a paper boat</q> said the
Baron, laughing: and the two gentlemen shook
hands and parted.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter VI.</head>

<p>
Meanwhile Audley Egerton's carriage had
deposited him at the door of Lord Lansmere's
house, at Knightsbridge. He asked for the
Countess, and was shown into the drawing-room
which was deserted. Egerton was paler than
usual; and as the door opened, he wiped the
unwonted moisture from his forehead, and there
was a quiver in his firm lip. The Countess
too, on entering, showed an emotion almost
equally unusual to her self-control. She pressed
Audley's hand in silence, and seating herself by
his side, seemed to collect her thoughts. At
length she said.
</p>

<p>
<q>It is rarely indeed that we meet, Mr. Egerton,
in spite of your intimacy with Lansmere
and Harley. I go so little into your world, and
you will not voluntarily come to me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Madam,</q> replied Egerton, <q>I might evade
your kind reproach by stating that my hours
are not at my disposal; but I answer you with
plain truth&mdash;it must be painful to both of us to
meet.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Countess colored and sighed, but did not
dispute the assertion.
</p>

<p>
Audley resumed. <q>And therefore, I presume
that, on sending for me, you have something
of moment to communicate.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It relates to Harley,</q> said the Countess, as
if in apology; <q>and I would take your advice.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>To Harley! speak on, I beseech you.</q>
</p>

<pb n='381'/><anchor id='Pg381'/>

<p>
<q>My son has probably told you that he has
educated and reared a young girl, with the intention
to make her Lady L'Estrange, and hereafter
Countess of Lansmere.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Harley has no secrets from me,</q> said Egerton,
mournfully.
</p>

<p>
<q>This young lady has arrived in England&mdash;is
here&mdash;in this house.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And Harley too?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No, she came over with Lady N&mdash;&mdash; and
her daughters. Harley was to follow shortly,
and I expect him daily. Here is his letter.
Observe, he has never yet communicated his
intentions to this young person, now intrusted
to my care&mdash;never spoken to her as the lover.</q>
</p>

<p>
Egerton took the letter and read it rapidly,
though with attention.
</p>

<p>
<q>True,</q> said he, as he returned the letter:
<q>and before he does so, he wishes you to see
Miss Digby and to judge of her yourself&mdash;wishes
to know if you will approve and sanction his
choice.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It is on this that I would consult you&mdash;a
girl without rank;&mdash;the father, it is true, a
gentleman, though almost equivocally one&mdash;but
the mother, I know not what. And Harley, for
whom I hoped alliance with the first houses in
England!</q> The Countess pressed her hands
convulsively together.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Egerton</hi>.&mdash;<q>He is no more a boy. His
talents have been wasted&mdash;his life a wanderer's.
He presents to you a chance of re-settling his
mind, of re-arousing his native powers, of a
home beside your own. Lady Lansmere, you
can not hesitate!</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Lady Lansmere</hi>.&mdash;<q>I do, I do! After all that
I have hoped, after all that I did to prevent&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Egerton</hi> (interrupting her).&mdash;<q>You owe him
now an atonement: that is in your power&mdash;it is
not in mine.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Countess again pressed Audley's hand,
and the tears gushed from her eyes.
</p>

<p>
<q>It shall be so. I consent&mdash;I consent. I
will silence, I will crush back this proud heart.
Alas! it well-nigh broke his own! I am glad
you speak thus. I like to think he owes my
consent to you. In that there is atonement for
both&mdash;both.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You are too generous, madam,</q> said Egerton,
evidently moved, though still, as ever,
striving to repress emotion. <q>And now may
I see the young lady? This conference pains
me; you see even my strong nerves quiver;
and at this time I have much to go through&mdash;need
of all my strength and firmness.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I hear, indeed, that the government will
probably retire. But it is with honor: it will be
soon called back by the voice of the nation.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Let me see the future wife of Harley L'Estrange,</q>
said Egerton, without heed of this consolatory
exclamation.
</p>

<p>
The Countess rose and left the room. In a
few minutes she returned with Helen Digby.
</p>

<p>
Helen was wondrously improved from the pale,
delicate child, with the soft smile and intelligent
eyes, who had sate by the side of Leonard in
his garret. She was about the middle height,
still slight, but beautifully formed; that exquisite
roundness of proportion, which conveys so
well the idea of woman, in its undulating, pliant
grace&mdash;formed to embellish life, and soften away
its rude angles&mdash;formed to embellish, not to protect.
Her face might not have satisfied the
critical eye of an artist&mdash;it was not without defects
in regularity; but its expression was eminently
gentle and prepossessing; and there were
few who would not have exclaimed, <q>What a
lovely countenance!</q> The mildness of her brow
was touched with melancholy&mdash;her childhood
had left its traces on her youth. Her step was
slow, and her manner shy, subdued, and timid.
</p>

<p>
Audley gazed on her with earnestness as she
approached him; and then coming forward, took
her hand and kissed it.
</p>

<p>
<q>I am your guardian's constant friend,</q> said
he; and he drew her gently to a seat beside him,
in the recess of a window. With a quick glance
of his eye toward the Countess, he seemed to imply
the wish to converse with Helen somewhat
apart. So the Countess interpreted the glance;
and though she remained in the room, she seated
herself at a distance, and bent over a book.
</p>

<p>
It was touching to see how the austere man
of business lent himself to draw forth the mind
of this quiet, shrinking girl; and if you had listened,
you would have comprehended how he
came to possess such social influence, and how
well, some time or other in the course of his life,
he had learned to adapt himself to women.
</p>

<p>
He spoke first of Harley L'Estrange&mdash;spoke
with tact and delicacy. Helen at first answered
by monosyllables, and then, by degrees, with
grateful and open affection. Audley's brow grew
shaded. He then spoke of Italy; and though no
man had less of the poet in his nature, yet, with
the dexterity of one long versed in the world,
and who has been accustomed to extract evidences
from characters most opposed to his own,
he suggested such topics as might serve to arouse
poetry in others. Helen's replies betrayed a cultivated
taste, and a charming womanly mind; but
they betrayed also one accustomed to take its
colorings from another's&mdash;to appreciate, admire,
revere the Lofty and the Beautiful, but humbly
and meekly. There was no vivid enthusiasm, no
remark of striking originality, no flash of the self-kindling,
creative faculty. Lastly, Egerton turned
to England&mdash;to the critical nature of the
times&mdash;to the claims which the country possessed
upon all who had the ability to serve and
guide its troubled destinies. He enlarged warmly
on Harley's natural talents, and rejoiced that
he had returned to England, perhaps to commence
some great career. Helen looked surprised,
but her face caught no correspondent
glow from Audley's eloquence. He rose, and
an expression of disappointment passed over his
grave, handsome features, and as quickly vanished.
</p>

<p>
<q>Adieu! my dear Miss Digby; I fear I have
<pb n='382'/><anchor id='Pg382'/>
wearied you, especially with my politics. Adieu,
Lady Lansmere; no doubt I shall see Harley as
soon as he returns.</q>
</p>

<p>
Then he hastened from the room, gained his
carriage, and ordered the coachman to drive to
Downing-street. He drew down the blinds, and
leaned back. A certain languor became visible
in his face, and once or twice he mechanically
put his hand to his heart.
</p>

<p>
<q>She is good, amiable, docile&mdash;will make an
excellent wife, no doubt,</q> said he murmuringly.
<q>But does she love Harley as he has dreamed
of love? No! Has she power and energy to
arouse his faculties, and restore to the world the
Harley of old? No! Meant by Heaven to be
the shadow of another's sun&mdash;not herself the sun&mdash;this
child is not the one who can atone for the
Past and illume the Future.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter VII.</head>

<p>
That evening Harley L'Estrange arrived at
his father's house. The few years that had passed
since we saw him last, had made no perceptible
change in his appearance. He still preserved
his elastic youthfulness of form, and singular
variety and play of countenance. He seemed
unaffectedly rejoiced to greet his parents, and
had something of the gayety and the tenderness
of a boy returned from school. His manner to
Helen bespoke the chivalry that pervaded all the
complexities and curves of his character. It was
affectionate, but respectful. Hers to him, subdued&mdash;but
innocently sweet and gently cordial.
Harley was the chief talker. The aspect of the
times was so critical, that he could not avoid
questions on politics; and, indeed, he showed an
interest in them which he had never evinced before.
Lord Lansmere was delighted.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, Harley, you love your country, after
all?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The moment she seems in danger&mdash;yes!</q>
replied the Patrician; and the Sybarite seemed
to rise into the Athenian.
</p>

<p>
Then he asked with eagerness about his old
friend Audley; and, his curiosity satisfied there,
he inquired the last literary news. He had heard
much of a book lately published. He named the
one ascribed by Parson Dale to Professor Moss:
none of his listeners had read it.
</p>

<p>
Harley pished at this, and accused them all of
indolence and stupidity, in his own quaint, metaphorical
style. Then he said&mdash;<q>And town gossip?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>We never hear it,</q> said Lady Lansmere.
</p>

<p>
<q>There is a new plow much talked of at Boodle's,</q>
said Lord Lansmere.
</p>

<p>
<q>God speed it. But is not there a new man
much talked of at White's?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I don't belong to White's.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Nevertheless, you may have heard of him&mdash;a foreigner,
a Count di Peschiera.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes,</q> said Lord Lansmere; <q>he was pointed
out to me in the Park&mdash;a handsome man for
a foreigner; wears his hair properly cut; looks
gentlemanlike and English.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ah, ah! He is here then!</q> And Harley
rubbed his hands.
</p>

<p>
<q>Which road did you take? did you pass the
Simplon?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No; I came straight from Vienna.</q>
</p>

<p>
Then, relating with lively vein his adventures
by the way, he continued to delight Lord Lansmere
by his gayety till the time came to retire
to rest. As soon as Harley was in his own room,
his mother joined him.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> said he, <q>I need not ask if you like
Miss Digby? Who would not?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Harley, my own son,</q> said the mother, bursting
into tears, <q>be happy your own way; only
be happy, that is all I ask.</q>
</p>

<p>
Harley, much affected, replied gratefully and
soothingly to this fond injunction. And then
gradually leading his mother on to converse of
Helen, asked abruptly&mdash;<q>And of the chance of
our happiness&mdash;her happiness as well as mine&mdash;what
is your opinion? Speak frankly.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Of <emph>her</emph> happiness, there can be no doubt,</q>
replied the mother, proudly. <q>Of yours, how
can you ask me? Have you not decided on that
yourself?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But still it cheers and encourages one in any
experiment, however well considered, to hear
the approval of another. Helen has certainly a
most gentle temper.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I should conjecture so. But her mind&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Is very well stored.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>She speaks so little&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes. I wonder why? She's surely a woman!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Pshaw,</q> said the Countess, smiling, in spite
of herself. <q>But tell me more of the process of
your experiment. You took her as a child, and
resolved to train her according to your own ideal.
Was that easy?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It seemed so. I desired to instill habits of
truth&mdash;she was already by nature truthful as the
day; a taste for Nature and all things natural&mdash;that
seemed inborn; perceptions of Art as the
interpreter of Nature&mdash;those were more difficult
to teach. I think they may come. You have
heard her play and sing?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>She will surprise you. She has less talent
for drawing; still, all that teaching could do has
been done&mdash;in a word, she is accomplished.&mdash;Temper,
heart, mind&mdash;these all are excellent.</q>
Harley stopped, and suppressed a sigh. <q>Certainly,
I ought to be very happy,</q> said he; and
he began to wind up his watch.
</p>

<p>
<q>Of course she must love you?</q> said the
Countess, after a pause. <q>How could she fail?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Love me! My dear mother, that is the very
question I shall have to ask.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Ask! Love is discovered by a glance; it
has no need of asking.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I have never discovered it, then, I assure
you. The fact is, that before her childhood was
passed, I removed her, as you may suppose,
from my roof. She resided with an Italian family,
near my usual abode. I visited her often,
<pb n='383'/><anchor id='Pg383'/>
directed her studies, watched her improvement&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>And fell in love with her?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Fall is such a very violent word. No; I
don't remember to have had a fall. It was all a
smooth inclined plane from the first step, until at
last I said to myself, <q>Harley L'Estrange, thy time
has come. The bud has blossomed into flower.
Take it to thy breast.</q> And myself replied to
myself meekly, <q>So be it.</q> Then I found that
Lady N&mdash;&mdash;, with her daughters, was coming
to England. I asked her ladyship to take my
ward to your house. I wrote to you, and prayed
your assent; and, that granted, I knew you
would obtain my father's. I am here&mdash;you give
me the approval I sought for. I will speak to
Helen to-morrow. Perhaps, after all, she may
reject me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Strange, strange&mdash;you speak thus coldly,
thus lightly; you so capable of ardent love!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Mother,</q> said Harley, earnestly, <q>be satisfied!
I am! Love, as of old, I feel, alas! too
well, can visit me never more. But gentle companionship,
tender friendship, the relief and the
sunlight of woman's smile&mdash;hereafter the voices
of children&mdash;music, that, striking on the hearts
of both parents, wakens the most lasting and
the purest of all sympathies: these are my hope.
Is the hope so mean, my fond mother?</q>
</p>

<p>
Again the Countess wept, and her tears were
not dried when she left the room.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>Chapter VIII.</head>

<p>
Oh! Helen, fair Helen&mdash;type of the quiet,
serene, unnoticed, deep-felt excellence of woman!
Woman, less as the ideal that a poet
conjures from the air, than as the companion of
a poet on the earth! Woman who, with her
clear sunny vision of things actual, and the exquisite
fibre of her delicate sense, supplies the
deficiencies of him whose foot stumbles on the
soil, because his eye is too intent upon the stars!
Woman, the provident, the comforting&mdash;angel
whose pinions are folded round the heart, guarding
there a divine spring unmarred by the winter
of the world! Helen, soft Helen, is it indeed
in thee that the wild and brilliant <q>lord of wantonness
and ease</q> is to find the regeneration of
his life&mdash;the rebaptism of his soul? Of what
avail thy meek, prudent household virtues, to one
whom Fortune screens from rough trial?&mdash;whose
sorrows lie remote from thy ken?&mdash;whose spirit,
erratic and perturbed, now rising, now falling,
needs a vision more subtle than thine to pursue,
and a strength that can sustain the reason, when
it droops, on the wings of enthusiasm and passion?
</p>

<p>
And thou thyself, O nature shrinking and
humble, that needest to be courted forth from
the shelter, and developed under the calm and
genial atmosphere of holy, happy love&mdash;can such
affection as Harley L'Estrange may proffer
suffice to thee? Will not the blossoms, yet
folded in the petal, wither away beneath the
shade that may protect them from the storm, and
yet shut them from the sun? Thou who, where
thou givest love, seekest, though meekly, for
love in return;&mdash;to be the soul's sweet necessity,
the life's household partner to him who receives
all thy faith and devotion&mdash;canst thou influence
the sources of joy and of sorrow in the heart that
does not heave at thy name? Hast thou the
charm and the force of the moon, that the tides
of that wayward sea shall ebb and flow at thy
will? Yet who shall say&mdash;who conjecture how
near two hearts can become, when no guilt lies
between them, and time brings the ties all its
own? Rarest of all things on earth is the union
in which both, by their contrasts, make harmonious
their blending; each supplying the defects
of the helpmate, and completing, by fusion, one
strong human soul! Happiness enough, where
even Peace does but seldom preside, when each
can bring to the altar, if not the flame, still the
incense. Where man's thoughts are all noble
and generous, woman's feelings all gentle and
pure, love may follow, if it does not precede;&mdash;and
if not&mdash;if the roses be missed from the
garland, one may sigh for the rose, but one is
safe from the thorn.
</p>

<p>
The morning was mild, yet somewhat overcast
by the mists which announce coming winter
in London, and Helen walked musingly beneath
the trees that surrounded the garden of
Lord Lansmere's house. Many leaves were yet
left on the boughs; but they were sere and
withered. And the birds chirped at times; but
their note was mournful and complaining. All
within this house, until Harley's arrival, had
been strange and saddening to Helen's timid and
subdued spirits. Lady Lansmere had received
her kindly, but with a certain restraint; and the
loftiness of manner, common to the Countess
with all but Harley, had awed and chilled the
diffident orphan. Lady Lansmere's very interest
in Harley's choice&mdash;her attempts to draw
Helen out of her reserve&mdash;her watchful eyes
whenever Helen shyly spoke, or shyly moved,
frightened the poor child, and made her unjust
to herself.
</p>

<p>
The very servants, though staid, grave, and
respectful, as suited a dignified, old-fashioned
household, painfully contrasted the bright welcoming
smiles and free talk of Italian domestics.
Her recollections of the happy warm Continental
manner, which so sets the bashful at their ease,
made the stately and cold precision of all around
her doubly awful and dispiriting. Lord Lansmere
himself, who did not as yet know the views
of Harley, and little dreamed that he was to anticipate
a daughter-in-law in the ward whom he
understood Harley, in a freak of generous romance,
had adopted, was familiar and courteous,
as became a host. But he looked upon Helen
as a mere child, and naturally left her to the
Countess. The dim sense of her equivocal position&mdash;of
her comparative humbleness of birth
and fortunes, oppressed and pained her; and
even her gratitude to Harley was made burthensome
by a sentiment of helplessness. The grateful
<pb n='384'/><anchor id='Pg384'/>
longing to requite. And what could she ever
do for him?
</p>

<p>
Thus musing, she wandered alone through the
curving walks; and this sort of mock country
landscape&mdash;London, loud and even visible beyond
the high gloomy walls, and no escape from
the windows of the square formal house&mdash;seemed
a type of the prison bounds of Rank to one whose
soul yearns for simple loving Nature.
</p>

<p>
Helen's reverie was interrupted by Nero's joyous
bark. He had caught sight of her, and came
bounding up, and thrust his large head into her
hand. As she stopped to caress the dog, happy
at his honest greeting, and tears that had been
long gathering to the lids fell silently on his face,
(for I know nothing that more moves us to tears
than the hearty kindness of a dog, when something
in human beings has pained or chilled us),
she heard behind the musical voice of Harley.
Hastily she dried or repressed her tears, as her
guardian came up, and drew her arm within his
own.
</p>

<p>
<q>I had so little of your conversation last evening,
my dear ward, that I may well monopolize
you now, even to the privation of Nero. And so
you are once more in your native land?</q>
</p>

<p>
Helen sighed softly.
</p>

<p>
<q>May I not hope that you return under fairer
auspices than those which your childhood knew?</q>
</p>

<p>
Helen turned her eyes with ingenuous thankfulness
to her guardian, and the memory of all
she owed to him rushed upon her heart.
</p>

<p>
Harley renewed, and with earnest, though
melancholy sweetness&mdash;<q>Helen, your eyes thank
me; but hear me before your words do. I deserve
no thanks. I am about to make to you a
strange confession of egotism and selfishness.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You!&mdash;oh, impossible!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Judge yourself, and then decide which of us
shall have cause to be grateful. Helen, when I
was scarcely your age&mdash;a boy in years, but more,
methinks, a man at heart, with man's strong energies
and sublime aspirings, than I have ever
since been&mdash;I loved, and deeply&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
He paused a moment, in evident struggle.
Helen listened in mute surprise, but his emotion
awakened her own; her tender woman's heart
yearned to console. Unconsciously her arm
rested on his less lightly.
</p>

<p>
<q>Deeply, and for sorrow. It is a long tale,
that may be told hereafter. The worldly would
call my love a madness. I did not reason on it
then&mdash;I can not reason on it now. Enough;
death smote suddenly, terribly, and to me mysteriously,
her whom I loved. The love lived on.
Fortunately, perhaps, for me, I had quick distraction,
not to grief, but to its inert indulgence.
I was a soldier; I joined our armies. Men
called me brave. Flattery! I was a coward before
the thought of life. I sought death: like
sleep, it does not come at our call. Peace ensued.
As when the winds fall the sails droop&mdash;so
when excitement ceased, all seemed to me
flat and objectless. Heavy, heavy was my heart.
Perhaps grief had been less obstinate, but that
I feared I had cause for self-reproach. Since
then I have been a wanderer&mdash;a self-made exile.
My boyhood had been ambitious&mdash;all ambition
ceased. Flames, when they reach the core of
the heart, spread, and leave all in ashes. Let
me be brief: I did not mean thus weakly to complain&mdash;I
to whom heaven has given so many
blessings! I felt, as it were, separated from the
common objects and joys of men. I grew startled
to see how, year by year, wayward humors
possessed me. I resolved again to attach myself
to some living heart&mdash;it was my sole chance
to rekindle my own. But the one I had loved
remained as my type of woman, and she was different
from all I saw. Therefore I said to myself,
'I will rear from childhood some young
fresh life, to grow up into my ideal.' As this
thought began to haunt me, I chanced to discover
you. Struck with the romance of your
early life, touched by your courage, charmed by
your affectionate nature, I said to myself, 'Here
is what I seek.' Helen, in assuming the guardianship
of your life, in all the culture which I
have sought to bestow on your docile childhood,
I repeat, that I have been but the egotist. And
now, when you have reached that age, when it
becomes me to speak, and you to listen&mdash;now,
when you are under the sacred roof of my own
mother&mdash;now I ask you, can you accept this
heart, such as wasted years, and griefs too fondly
nursed, have left it? Can you be, at least, my
comforter? Can you aid me to regard life as a
duty, and recover those aspirations which once
soared from the paltry and miserable confines of
our frivolous daily being? Helen, here I ask
you, can you be all this, and under the name of&mdash;Wife?</q>
</p>

<p>
It would be in vain to describe the rapid, varying,
indefinable emotions that passed through
the inexperienced heart of the youthful listener,
as Harley thus spoke. He so moved all the
springs of amaze, compassion, tender respect,
sympathy, childlike gratitude, that when he
paused, and gently took her hand, she remained
bewildered, speechless, overpowered. Harley
smiled as he gazed upon her blushing, downcast,
expressive face. He conjectured at once that
the idea of such proposals had never crossed her
mind; that she had never contemplated him in
the character of wooer; never even sounded her
heart as to the nature of such feelings as his
image had aroused.
</p>

<p>
<q>My Helen,</q> he resumed, with a calm pathos
of voice, <q>there is some disparity of years
between us, and perhaps I may not hope henceforth
for that love which youth gives to the
young. Permit me simply to ask, what you will
frankly answer&mdash;Can you have seen in our
quiet life abroad, or under the roof of your Italian
friends, any one you prefer to me?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>No, indeed, no!</q> murmured Helen. <q>How
could I?&mdash;who is like you?</q> Then, with a
sudden effort&mdash;for her innate truthfulness took
alarm, and her very affection for Harley, child-like
and reverent, made her tremble, lest she
<pb n='385'/><anchor id='Pg385'/>
should deceive him&mdash;she drew a little aside, and
spoke thus:
</p>

<p>
<q>Oh, my dear guardian, noblest of all human
beings, at least in my eyes, forgive, forgive me if
I seem ungrateful, hesitating; but I can not, can
not think of myself as worthy of you. I never
so lifted my eyes. Your rank, your position&mdash;</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Why should they be eternally my curse?
Forget them, and go on.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>It is not only they,</q> said Helen, almost sobbing,
<q>though they are much; but I your type,
your ideal!&mdash;I!&mdash;impossible! Oh, how can I
ever be any thing even of use, of aid, of comfort,
to one like you!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You can, Helen&mdash;you can,</q> cried Harley,
charmed by such ingenuous modesty. <q>May I
not keep this hand?</q>
</p>

<p>
And Helen left her hand in Harley's, and
turned away her face, fairly weeping. A stately
step passed under the wintry trees.
</p>

<p>
<q>My mother,</q> said Harley L'Estrange, looking
up, <q>I present to you my future wife.</q>
</p>

<p>
(To Be Continued.)
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Orphan's Dream Of Christmas.</head>

<lg>
<l>It was Christmas Eve&mdash;and lonely,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By a garret window high,</l>
<l>Where the city chimneys barely</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Spared a hand's-breadth of the sky,</l>
<l>Sat a child, in age&mdash;but weeping,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With a face so small and thin,</l>
<l>That it seem'd too scant a record</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To have eight years traced therein.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Oh, grief looks most distorted</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>When his hideous shadow lies</l>
<l>On the clear and sunny life-stream</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>That doth fill a child's blue eyes,</l>
<l>But <emph>her</emph> eye was dull and sunken,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And the whiten'd cheek was gaunt,</l>
<l>And the blue veins on the forehead</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Were the penciling of Want.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>And she wept for years like jewels,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Till the last year's bitter gall,</l>
<l>Like the acid of the story,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In itself had melted all;</l>
<l>But the Christmas time returned,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As an old friend, for whose eye</l>
<l>She would take down all the pictures</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Sketch'd by faithful Memory,&mdash;</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Of those brilliant Christmas seasons,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>When the joyous laugh went around;</l>
<l>When sweet words of love and kindness</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Were no unfamiliar sound</l>
<l>When, lit by the log's red lustre,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>She her mother's face could see,</l>
<l>And she rock'd the cradle, sitting</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>On her own twin brother's knee:</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Of her father's pleasant stories;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Of the riddles and the rhymes,</l>
<l>All the kisses and the presents</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>That had mark'd those Christmas times.</l>
<l>'Twas as well that there was no one</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>(For it were a mocking strain)</l>
<l>To wish <hi rend='italic'>her</hi> a merry Christmas,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>For <emph>that</emph> could not come again.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>How there came a time of struggling,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>When, in spite of love and faith,</l>
<l>Grinding Poverty would only</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In the end give place to Death;</l>
<l>How her mother grew heart-broken,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>When her toil-worn father died,</l>
<l>Took her baby in her bosom,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And was buried by his side:</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>How she clung unto her brother</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>As the last spar from the wreck,</l>
<l>But stern Death had come between them</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>While her arms were around his neck</l>
<l>There were <emph>now</emph> no loving voices;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And, if few hands offered bread,</l>
<l>There were none to rest in blessing</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>On the little homeless head.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Or, if any gave her shelter,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>It was less of joy than fear;</l>
<l>For they welcom'd Crime more warmly</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To the selfsame room with her.</l>
<l>But, at length they all grew weary</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Of their sick and useless guest;</l>
<l>She must try a workhouse welcome</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>For the helpless and distressed.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>But she pray'd; and the Unsleeping</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>In his ear that whisper caught;</l>
<l>So he sent down Sleep, who gave her</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Such a respite as she sought;</l>
<l>Drew the fair head to her bosom,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Pressed the wetted eyelids close,</l>
<l>And with softly-falling kisses,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Lulled her gently to repose.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Then she dreamed the angels, sweeping</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With their wings the sky aside,</l>
<l>Raised her swiftly to the country</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Where the blessed ones abide:</l>
<l>To a bower all flushed with beauty,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By a shadowy arcade,</l>
<l>Where a mellowness like moonlight</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>By the Tree of Life was made:</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Where the rich fruit sparkled, star-like,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And pure flowers of fadeless dye</l>
<l>Poured their fragrance on the waters</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>That in crystal beds went by:</l>
<l>Where bright hills of pearl and amber</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Closed the fair green valleys round,</l>
<l>And, with rainbow light, but lasting,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Were there glistening summits crown'd</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Then, that distant-burning glory,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>'Mid a gorgeousness of light!</l>
<l>The long vista of Archangels</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Could scarce chasten to her sight.</l>
<l>There sat One; and her heart told her</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>'Twas the same, who, for our sin,</l>
<l>Was once born a little baby</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'><q>In the stable of an inn.</q></l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>There was music&mdash;oh, such music!&mdash;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>They were trying the old strains</l>
<l>That a certain group of shepherds</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Heard on old Judea's plains;</l>
<l>But, when that divinest chorus</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To a softened trembling fell,</l>
<l>Love's true ear discerned the voices</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>That on earth she loved so well.</l>
</lg>

<pb n='386'/><anchor id='Pg386'/>

<lg>
<l>At a tiny grotto's entrance</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>A fair child her eyes behold,</l>
<l>With his ivory shoulders hidden</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>'Neath his curls of living gold;</l>
<l>And he asks them, <q>Is she coming?</q></l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>But ere any one can speak,</l>
<l>The white arms of her twin brother</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Are once more about her neck.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Then they all come round her greeting;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>But she might have well denied</l>
<l>That her beautiful young sister</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Is the poor pale child that died;</l>
<l>And the careful look hath vanished</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>From her father's tearless face,</l>
<l>And she does not know her mother</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Till she feels the old embrace.</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Oh, from that ecstatic dreaming</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Must she ever wake again,</l>
<l>To the cold and cheerless contrast&mdash;&mdash;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To a life of lonely pain?</l>
<l>But her Maker's sternest servant</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To her side on tiptoe stept;</l>
<l>Told his message in a whisper,&mdash;&mdash;</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>And she stirred not as she slept!</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>Now the Christmas morn was breaking</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With a dim, uncertain hue,</l>
<l>And the chilling breeze of morning</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Came the broken window through;</l>
<l>And the hair upon her forehead,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Was it lifted by the blast,</l>
<l>Or the brushing wings of Seraphs,</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>With their burden as they pass'd?</l>
</lg>

<lg>
<l>All the festive bells were chiming</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>To the myriad hearts below;</l>
<l>But that deep sleep still hung heavy</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>On the sleeper's thoughtful brow.</l>
<l>To her quiet face the dream-light</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Had a lingering glory given;</l>
<l>But the child <emph>herself</emph> was keeping</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>Her Christmas-day in Heaven!</l>
</lg>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>What Christmas Is In The Company
Of John Doe.
By Charles Dickens.</head>

<p>
I have kept (among a store of jovial, genial,
heart-stirring returns of the season) some very
dismal Christmasses. I have kept Christmas in
Constantinople, at a horrible Pera hotel, where I
attempted the manufacture of a plum-pudding
from the maccaroni-soup they served me for dinner,
mingled with some Zante currants, and a box
of figs I had brought from Smyrna; and where
I sat, until very late at night, endeavoring to persuade
myself that it was cold and <q>Christmassy</q>
(though it wasn't), drinking Levant wine, and
listening to the howling of the dogs outside,
mingled with the clank of a portable fire-engine,
which some soldiers were carrying to one of those
extensive conflagrations which never happen in
Constantinople oftener than three times a day.
I have kept Christmas on board a Boulogne
packet, in company with a basin, several despair-stricken
females, and a damp steward; who, to
all our inquiries whether we should be <q>in soon,</q>
had the one unvarying answer of <q>pretty near,</q>
to give. I have kept Christmas, when a boy, at
a French boarding-school, where they gave me
nothing but lentils and <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>bouilli</foreign> for dinner, on
the auspicious day itself. I have kept Christmas by
the bed-side of a sick friend, and wished him
the compliments of the season in his physic-bottles
(had they contained another six months' life,
poor soul!) I have kept Christmas at rich men's
tables, where I have been uncomfortable; and
once in a cobbler's shop, where I was excessively
convivial. I have spent one Christmas in prison.
Start not, urbane reader! I was not sent there
for larceny, nor for misdemeanor: but for debt.
</p>

<p>
It was Christmas-eve; and I&mdash;my name is
Prupper&mdash;was taking my walks abroad. I walked
through the crowded Strand, elate, hilarious, benignant,
for the feast was prepared, and the guests
were bidden. Such a turkey I had ordered! Not
the prize one with the ribbons&mdash;I mistrusted that;
but a plump, tender, white-breasted bird, a king
of turkeys. It was to be boiled with oyster-sauce;
and the rest of the Christmas dinner was to consist
of that noble sirloin of roast beef, and that
immortal cod's head and shoulders! I had bought
the materials for the pudding, too, some half-hour
previously: the plums and the currants, the citron
and the allspice, the flour and the eggs. I was
happy.
</p>

<p>
Onward, by the bright grocers' shops, thronged
with pudding-purchasers! Onward, by the book-sellers',
though lingering, it may be, for a moment,
by the gorgeous Christmas books, with
their bright binding, and brighter pictures. Onward,
by the pastry cooks'! Onward, elate,
hilarious, and benignant, until, just as I stopped
by a poulterer's shop, to admire the finest capon
that ever London or Christmas saw, a hand was
laid on my shoulder!
</p>

<p>
<q>Before our sovereign lady the Queen</q>&mdash;<q>by
the grace of God, greeting</q>&mdash;<q>that you take the
body of Thomas Prupper, and him safely keep</q>&mdash;<q>and
for so doing, this shall be your warrant.</q>
</p>

<p>
These dread and significant words swam before
my dazzled eyelids, dancing maniac hornpipes on
a parchment slip of paper. I was to keep Christmas
in no other company than that of the once
celebrated fictitious personage, supposed to be
the familiar of all persons similarly situated&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>John
Doe</hi>.
</p>

<p>
I remember with horror, that some fortnight
previously, a lawyers's clerk deposited on my
shoulder a slip of paper, which he stated to be
the copy of a writ, and in which her Majesty the
Queen (mixed up for the nonce with John, Lord
Campbell) was pleased to command me to enter
an appearance somewhere, by such a day, in order
to answer the plaint of somebody, who said
I owed him some money. Now, an appearance
had not been entered, and judgment had gone by
default, and execution had been obtained against
me. The Sheriff of Middlesex (who is popularly,
though erroneously, supposed to be incessantly
running up and down in his bailiwick) had had
a writ of <foreign rend='italic'>fieri facias</foreign>,
vulgarly termed a <foreign rend='italic'>fi. fa.</foreign>
against my goods; but hearing, or satisfying
himself by adroit espionage, that I had <emph>no</emph> goods,
<pb n='387'/><anchor id='Pg387'/>
he had made a return of <foreign rend='italic'>nulla bona</foreign>. Then had
he invoked the aid of a more subtle and potential
instrument, likewise on parchment, called a <foreign rend='italic'>capias
ad satisfaciendum</foreign>, abbreviated in legal parlance
into <foreign rend='italic'>ca. sa.</foreign>, against my body. This writ he had
confided to Aminadab, his man; and Aminadab,
running, as he was in duty bound to do, up and
down in his section of the bailiwick, had come
across me, and had made me the captive of his
bow and spear. He called it, less metaphorically,
<q>nabbing me.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mr. Aminadab (tall, aquiline-nosed, oleaginous,
somewhat dirty; clad in a green Newmarket coat,
a crimson velvet waistcoat, a purple satin neckcloth
with gold flowers, two watch-guards, and
four diamond rings)&mdash;Mr. Aminadab proposed
that <q>something should be done.</q> Would I go
to White-cross-street at once I or to Blowman's,
in Cursitor-street? or would I just step into
Peele's Coffee-house for a moment? Mr. Aminadab
was perfectly polite, and indefatigably
suggestive.
</p>

<p>
The capture had been made in Fleet-street; so
we stepped into Peele's, and while Mr. Aminadab
sipped the pint of wine which he had obligingly
suggested I should order, I began to look my
position in the face. Execution taken out for
forty-five pounds nine and ninepence. <foreign rend='italic'>Ca. sa.</foreign>,
a guinea; <foreign rend='italic'>fi. fa.</foreign>, a guinea; capture, a guinea;
those were all the costs as <emph>yet</emph>. Now, some days
after I was served with the writ, I had paid the
plaintiff's lawyer, on account, thirty pounds. In
the innocence of my heart, I imagined that, by
the County Court Act, I could not be arrested
for the balance, it being under twenty pounds.
Mr. Aminadab laughed with contemptuous pity.
</p>

<p>
<q>We don't do business that way,</q> said he;
<q>we goes in for the whole lot, and then you
pleads your set-off, you know.</q>
</p>

<p>
The long and the short of the matter was, that
I had eighteen pounds, twelve shillings, and ninepence,
to pay, before my friend in the purple
neckcloth would relinquish his grasp; and that
to satisfy the demand, I had exactly the sum of
two pounds two and a half-penny, and a gold
watch, on which a relation of mine would probably
advance four pounds more. So, I fell to
writing letters, Mr. Aminadab sipping the wine
and playing with one of his watch-chains in the
meanwhile.
</p>

<p>
I wrote to Jones, Brown, and Robinson&mdash;to
Thompson, and to Jackson likewise. I wrote to
my surly uncle in Pudding-lane. Now was the
time to put the disinterested friendship of Brown
to the test; to avail myself of the repeated offers
of service from Jones; to ask for the loan of that
sixpence which Robinson had repeatedly declared
was at my command as long as he had a shilling.
I sealed the letters with an unsteady hand, and
consulted Mr. Aminadab as to their dispatch.
That gentleman, by some feat of legerdemain,
called up from the bowels of the earth, or from
one of those mysterious localities known as
<q>round the corner,</q> two sprites: one, his immediate
assistant; seedier, however, and not
jeweled, who carried a nobby stick which he
continually gnawed. The other, a horrible little
man with a white head and a white neckcloth,
twisted round his neck like a halter. His eye
was red, and his teeth were gone, and the odor
of rum compassed him about, like a cloak. To
these two acolytes my notes were confided, and
they were directed to bring the answers like lightning
to Blowman's. To Blowman's, in Cursitor-street,
Chancery-lane, I was bound, and a cab
was straightway called for my conveyance there-to.
For the matter of that, the distance was so
short, I might easily have walked, but I could not
divest myself of the idea that every body in the
street knew I was a prisoner.
</p>

<p>
I was soon within the hospitable doors of Mr.
Blowman, officer to the Sheriff of Middlesex.
His hospitable doors were double, and, for more
hospitality, heavily barred, locked, and chained.
These, with the exceptions of barred windows,
and a species of grating-roofed yard outside, like
a monster bird-cage, were the only visible signs
of captivity. Yet there was enough stone in
the hearts, and iron in the souls, of Mr. Blowman's
inmates, to build a score of lock-up houses.
For that you may take my word.
</p>

<p>
I refused the offer of a private room, and was
conducted to the coffee-room, where Mr. Aminadab
left me, for a while, to my own reflections;
and to wait for the answers to my letters.
</p>

<p>
They came&mdash;and one friend into the bargain.
Jones had gone to Hammersmith, and wouldn't
be back till next July. Brown had been disappointed
in the city. Robinson's money was all
locked up. Thompson expected to be locked up
himself. Jackson was brief, but explicit: he
said he <q>would rather not.</q>
</p>

<p>
My friend brought me a carpet-bag, with what
clothes I wanted in it. He advised me, more
over, to go to Whitecross-street at once, for a
sojourn at Mr. Blowman's domicile would cost
me something like a guinea per diem. So, summoning
Mr. Aminadab, who had obligingly waited
to see if I could raise the money or not, I
announced my intention of being conveyed to jail
at once. I paid half-a-guinea for the accommodation
I had had at Mr. Blowman's; I made a
pecuniary acknowledgment of Mr. Aminadab's
politeness; and I did not fail to remember the
old man in the white halter and the spirituous
mantle. Then, when I had also remembered a
red-headed little Jew boy, who acted as Cerberus
to this Hades, and appeared to be continually
washing his hands (though they never seemed
one whit the cleaner for the operation), another
cab was called, and off I went to Whitecross-street,
with a heart considerably heavier than a
paving stone.
</p>

<p>
I had already been three hours in captivity,
and it was getting on for eight o'clock. The
cab was proceeding along Holborn, and I thought,
involuntarily, of Mr. Samuel Hall, black and
grimy, making his progress through the same
thoroughfares, by the Oxford Road, and so on to
Tyburn, bowing to the crowd, and cursing the
Ordinary. The foot-pavement on either side was
thronged with people at their Christmas marketing,
<pb n='388'/><anchor id='Pg388'/>
or, at least, on some Christmas business&mdash;so
it seemed to me. Goose Clubs were being
held at the public houses&mdash;sweeps for sucking-pigs,
plum-puddings, and bottles of gin. Some
ladies and gentlemen had begun their Christmas
rather too early, and were meandering unsteadily
over the flag-stones. Fiddlers were in great request,
being sought for in small beershops, and
borne off bodily from bars, to assist at Christmas
Eve merry-makings. An immense deal of hand-shaking
was going on, and I was very much
afraid, a good deal more <q>standing</q> than was
consistent with the strict rules of temperance.
Every body kept saying that it was <q>only once
a year,</q> and made that an apology (so prone are
mankind to the use of trivial excuses!) for their
sins against Father Mathew. Loud laughter
rang through the frosty air. Pleasant jokes,
innocent <q>chaff,</q> passed; grocers' young men
toiled lustily, wiping their hot faces ever and
anon; butchers took no rest; prize beef melted
away from very richness before my eyes; and
in the midst of all the bustle and jollity, the
crowding, laughing, drinking, and shouting, I
was still on my unvarying way to Whitecross-street.
</p>

<p>
There was a man resting a child's coffin on
a railing, and chattering with a pot-boy, with
whom he shared a pot of porter <q>with the sharp
edge taken off.</q> There are heavy hearts&mdash;heavier
perchance than yours, in London, this
Christmas Eve, my friend Prupper, thought I.
To-morrow's dawn will bring sorrow and faint-heartedness
to many thousands&mdash;to oceans of
humanity, of which you are but a single drop.
</p>

<p>
The cab had conveyed me through Smithfield
Market, and now rumbled up Barbican. My
companion, the gentleman with the crab-stick
(to whose care Mr. Aminadab had consigned
me), beguiled the time with pleasant and instructive
conversation. He told me that he had
<q>nabbed a many parties.</q> That he had captured
a Doctor of Divinity going to a Christmas,
a bridegroom starting for the honeymoon, a
colonel of hussars in full fig for her Majesty's
drawing-room. That he had the honor once of
<q>nabbing</q> the eldest son of a peer of the realm,
who, however, escaped from him through a second-floor
window, and over the tiles. That he
was once commissioned to <q>nab</q> the celebrated
Mr. Wix, of the Theatres Royal. That Mr.
Wix, being in the act of playing the Baron Spolaccio,
in the famous tragedy of <q>Love, Ruin,
and Revenge,</q> he, Crabstick, permitted him, in
deference to the interests of the drama, to play
the part out, stationing an assistant at each
wing to prevent escape. That the delusive Wix
<q>bilked</q> him, by going down a trap. That he,
Crabstick, captured him, notwithstanding under
the stage, though opposed by the gigantic Wix
himself, two stage carpenters, a demon, and the
Third Citizen. That Wix rushed on the stage,
and explained his position to the audience, whereupon
the gallery (Wix being an especial favorite
of theirs) expressed a strong desire to have his
(Crabstick's) blood; and, failing to obtain that,
tore up the benches; in the midst of which operation
the recalcitrant Wix was removed. With
these and similar anecdotes of the nobility, gentry,
and the public in general, he was kind enough
to regale me, until the cab stopped. I alighted
in a narrow, dirty street; was hurried up a steep
flight of steps; a heavy door clanged behind me;
and Crabstick, pocketing his small gratuity, wished
me a good-night and a merry Christmas. A
merry Christmas: ugh!
</p>

<p>
That night I slept in a dreadful place, called the
Reception ward, on an iron bedstead, in a room
with a stone floor. I was alone, and horribly
miserable. I heard the Waits playing in the distance,
and dreamed I was at a Christmas party.
</p>

<p>
Christmas morning in Whitecross-street Prison!
A turnkey conducted me to the <q>Middlesex
side</q>&mdash;a long dreary yard&mdash;on either side
of which were doors leading into wards, or coffee-rooms,
on the ground floor, and by stone-staircases,
to sleeping-apartments above. It was
all very cold, very dismal, very gloomy. I entered
the ward allotted to me, Number Seven,
left. It was a long room, with barred windows,
cross tables and benches, with an aisle between;
a large fire at the further end; <q>Dum spiro,
spero,</q> painted above the mantle-piece. Twenty
or thirty prisoners and their friends were sitting
at the tables, smoking pipes, drinking beer,
or reading newspapers. But for the unmistakable
jail-bird look about the majority of the
guests, the unshorn faces, the slipshod feet, the
barred windows, and the stone floor, I might
have fancied myself in a large tap-room.
</p>

<p>
There was holly and mistletoe round the gas-pipes;
but how woeful and forlorn they looked!
There was roast-beef and plum-pudding preparing
at the fire-place; but they had neither
the odor nor the appearance of free beef and pudding.
I was thinking of the cosy room, the snug
fire, the well-drawn curtains, the glittering table,
the happy faces, when the turnkey introduced
me to the steward of the ward (an officer appointed
by the prisoners, and a prisoner himself)
who <q>tables you off,</q> <hi rend='italic'>i.e.</hi>, who allotted me a
seat at one of the cross-tables, which was henceforward
mine for all purposes of eating, drinking,
writing, or smoking; in consideration of a
payment on my part of one guinea sterling. This
sum made me also free of the ward, and entitled
to have my boots cleaned, my bed made, and my
meals cooked. Supposing that I had not possessed
a guinea (which was likely enough), I
should have asked for time, which would have
been granted me; but, at the expiration of three
days, omission of payment would have constituted
me a defaulter; in which case, the best
thing I could have done would have been to declare
pauperism, and remove to the poor side of
the prison. Here, I should have been entitled
to my <q>sixpences,</q> amounting in the aggregate
to the sum of three shillings and sixpence a week
toward my maintenance.
</p>

<p>
The steward, a fat man in a green <q>wide-awake</q>
hat, who was incarcerated on remand
for the damages in an action for breach of promise
<pb n='389'/><anchor id='Pg389'/>
of marriage, introduced me to the cook (who
was going up next week to the Insolvent Court,
having filed his schedule as a beer-shop keeper).
He told me, that if I chose to purchase any thing
at a species of every-thing-shop in the yard, the
cook would dress it; or, if I did not choose to be
at the trouble of providing myself, I might breakfast,
dine, and sup at his, the steward's, table,
<q>for a consideration,</q> as Mr. Trapbois has it.
I acceded to the latter proposition, receiving the
intelligence that turkey and oyster-sauce were
to be ready at two precisely, with melancholy
indifference. Turkey had no charms for me now.
</p>

<p>
I sauntered forth into the yard, and passed
fifty or sixty fellow-unfortunates, sauntering as
listlessly as myself. Strolling about, I came to
a large grating, somewhat similar to Mr. Blowman's
bird-cage, in which was a heavy gate
called the <q>lock,</q> and which communicated with
the corridors leading to the exterior of the prison.
Here sat, calmly surveying his caged birds within,
a turnkey&mdash;not a repulsive, gruff-voiced monster,
with a red neckerchief and top boots, and
a bunch of keys, as turnkeys are popularly supposed
to be&mdash;but a pleasant, jovial man enough,
in sleek black. He had a little lodge behind,
where a bright fire burned, and where Mrs. Turnkey,
and the little Turnkeys lived. (I found a
direful resemblance between the name of his
office, and that of the Christmas bird.) His
Christmas dinner hung to the iron bars above
him, in the shape of a magnificent piece of beef.
Happy turnkey, to be able to eat it on the outer
side of that dreadful grating! In another part
of the yard hung a large black board, inscribed
in half-effaced characters, with the enumerations
of divers donations, made in former times by
charitable persons, for the benefit in perpetuity
of poor prisoners. To-day, so much beef and so
much strong beer was allotted to each prisoner.
</p>

<p>
But what were beef and beer, what was unlimited
tobacco, or even the plum-pudding, when
made from prison plums, boiled in a prison copper,
and eaten in a prison dining-room? What
though surreptitious gin were carried in, in bladders,
beneath the under garments of the fairer
portion of creation; what though brandy were
smuggled into the wards, disguised as black
draughts, or extract of sarsaparilla? A pretty
Christmas market I had brought my pigs to!
</p>

<p>
Chapel was over (I had come down too late
from the <q>Reception</q> to attend it); and the congregation
(a lamentably small one) dispersed in
the yard and wards. I entered my own ward,
to change (if any thing could change) the dreary
scene.
</p>

<p>
Smoking and cooking appeared to be the chief
employments and recreations of the prisoners.
An insolvent clergyman in rusty black, was
gravely rolling out puff-paste on a pie-board;
and a man in his shirt-sleeves, covering a veal
cutlet with egg and bread-crum, was an officer
of dragoons!
</p>

<p>
I found no lack of persons willing to enter into
conversation with me. I talked, full twenty
minutes, with a seedy captive, with a white
head, and a coat buttoned and pinned up to the
chin.
</p>

<p>
Whitecross-street, he told me (or Burdon's
Hotel, as in the prison slang he called it), was
the only place where any <q>life</q> was to be seen.
The Fleet was pulled down; the Marshalsea had
gone the way of all brick-and-mortar; the Queen's
Prison, the old <q>Bench,</q> was managed on a strict
system of classification and general discipline;
and Horsemonger-lane was but rarely tenanted
by debtors; but in favored Whitecross-street,
the good old features of imprisonment for debt
yet flourished. Good dinners were still occasionally
given; <q>fives</q> and football were yet played;
and, from time to time, obnoxious attorneys, or importunate
process-servers&mdash;<q>rats</q> as they were
called&mdash;were pumped upon, floured, and bonneted.
Yet, even Whitecross-street, he said with a
sigh, was falling off. The Small Debts Act and
those revolutionary County Courts would be too
many for it soon.
</p>

<p>
That tall, robust, bushy-whiskered man, (he
said) in the magnificently flowered dressing-gown,
the crimson Turkish smoking cap, the velvet slippers,
and the ostentatiously displayed gold guard-chain,
was a <q>mace-man:</q> an individual who lived
on his wits, and on the want of wit in others.
He had had many names, varying from Plantagenet
and De Courcy, to <q>Edmonston and
Co.,</q> or plain Smith or Johnson. He was a
real gentleman once upon a time&mdash;a very long
time ago. Since then, he had done a little on
the turf, and a great deal in French hazard, roulette,
and <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>rouge et noir</foreign>. He had cheated
bill-discounters, and discounted bills himself. He
had been a picture-dealer, and a wine-merchant,
and one of those mysterious individuals called a
<q>commission agent.</q> He had done a little on
the Stock Exchange, and a little billiard-marking,
and a little skittle-sharping, and a little thimble-rigging.
He was not particular. Bills, however,
were his passion. He was under a cloud
just now, in consequence of some bill-dealing
transaction, which the Commissioner of Insolvency
had broadly hinted to be like a bill-stealing
one. However, he had wonderful elasticity, and
it was to be hoped would soon get over his little
difficulties. Meanwhile, he dined sumptuously,
and smoked cigars of price; occasionally condescending
to toss half-crowns in a hat with any
of the other <q>nobs</q> incarcerated.
</p>

<p>
That cap, and the battered worn-out sickly
frame beneath (if I would have the goodness to
notice them) were all that were left of a spruce,
rosy-cheeked, glittering young ensign of infantry.
He was brought up by an old maiden aunt, who
spent her savings to buy him a commission in
the army. He went from Slowchester Grammar
School, to Fastchester Barracks. He was to live
on his pay. He gambled a year's pay away in
an evening. He made thousand guinea bets, and
lost them. So the old <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>denouement</foreign> of the old
story came round as usual. The silver dressing-case,
got on credit&mdash;pawned for ready money; the
credit-horses sold; more credit-horses bought;
importunate creditors in the barrack-yard; a
<pb n='390'/><anchor id='Pg390'/>
letter from the colonel; sale of his commission;
himself sold up; then Mr. Aminadab, Mr. Blowman,
Burdon's Hotel, Insolvent Court, a year's
remand; and, an after life embittered by the consciousness
of wasted time and talents, and wantonly-neglected
opportunities.
</p>

<p>
My informant pointed out many duplicates of
the gentleman in the dressing-gown. Also,
divers Government clerks, who had attempted
to imitate the nobs in a small way, and had only
succeeded to the extent of sharing the same
prison; a mild gray-headed old gentleman who
always managed to get committed for contempt
of court; and the one inevitable baronet of a
debtor's prison, who is traditionally supposed to
have eight thousand a year, and to stop in prison
because he likes it&mdash;though, to say the truth, this
baronet looked, to me, as if he didn't like it at all.
</p>

<p>
I was sick of all these, and of every thing else
in Whitecross-street, before nine o'clock, when I
was at liberty to retire to my cold ward. So
ended my Christmas-day&mdash;my first, and, I hope
and believe, my last Christmas-day in prison.
</p>

<p>
Next morning my welcome friend arrived and
set me free. I paid the gate-fees, and I gave the
turnkeys a crown, and I gave the prisoners unbounded
beer. I kept New Year's day in company
with a pretty cousin with glossy black hair,
who was to have dined with me on Christmas-day,
and who took such pity on me that she
shortly became Mrs. Prupper. Our eldest boy
was born, by a curious coincidence, next Christmas-day&mdash;which
I kept very jovially, with the
doctor, after it was all over, and we <emph>didn't</emph> christen
him Whitecross.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>What Christmas Is, As We Grow
Older. By Charles Dickens.</head>

<p>
Time was, with most of us, when Christmas-day
encircling all our limited world like a
magic ring, left nothing out for us to miss or
seek; bound together all our home enjoyments,
affections, and hopes; grouped every thing and
every one around the Christmas fire; and made
the little picture shining in our bright young
eyes, complete.
</p>

<p>
Time came, perhaps, all so soon! when our
thoughts overleaped that narrow boundary; when
there was some one (very dear, we thought then,
very beautiful, and absolutely perfect) wanting to
the fullness of our happiness; when we were
wanting too (or we thought so, which did just as
well) at the Christmas hearth by which that some
one sat; and when we intertwined with every
wreath and garland of our life that some one's
name.
</p>

<p>
That was the time for the bright visionary
Christmases which have long arisen from us to
show faintly, after summer rain, in the palest
edges of the rainbow! That was the time for
the beatified enjoyment of the things that were to
be, and never were, and yet the things that were
so real in our resolute hope that it would be hard
to say, now, what realities achieved since, have
been stronger!
</p>

<p>
What! Did that Christmas never really come
when we and the priceless pearl who was our
young choice were received, after the happiest
of totally impossible marriages, by the two united
families previously at daggers-drawn on our account?
When brothers and sisters in law who
had always been rather cool to us before our relationship
was effected, perfectly doted on us,
and when fathers and mothers overwhelmed us
with unlimited incomes? Was that Christmas
dinner never really eaten, after which we arose,
and generously and eloquently rendered honor to
our late rival, present in the company, then and
there exchanging friendship and forgiveness, and
founding an attachment, not to be surpassed in
Greek or Roman story, which subsisted until
death? Has that same rival long ceased to care for
that same priceless pearl, and married for money,
and become usurious? Above all, do we really
know, now, that we should probably have been
miserable if we had won and worn the pearl, and
that we are better without her?
</p>

<p>
That Christmas when we had recently achieved
so much fame; when we had been carried in
triumph somewhere, for doing something great
and good; when we had won an honored and
ennobled name, and arrived and were received at
home in a shower of tears of joy; is it possible
that <emph>that</emph> Christmas has not come yet?
</p>

<p>
And is our life here, at the best, so constituted
that, pausing as we advance at such a noticeable
mile-stone in the track as this great birthday, we
look back on the things that never were, as naturally
and full as gravely as on the things that
have been and are gone, or have been and still
are? If it be so, and so it seems to be, must we
come to the conclusion, that life is little better
than a dream, and little worth the loves and
strivings that we crowd into it?
</p>

<p>
No! Far be such miscalled philosophy from
us, dear Reader, on Christmas-day! Nearer
and closer to our hearts be the Christmas spirit,
which is the spirit of active usefulness, perseverance,
cheerful discharge of duty, kindness, and
forbearance! It is in the last virtues especially,
that we are, or should be, strengthened by the
unaccomplished visions of our youth; for who
shall say that they are not our teachers to deal
gently even with the impalpable nothings of the
earth!
</p>

<p>
Therefore, as we grow older, let us be more
thankful that the circle of our Christmas associations
and of the lessons that they bring, expands!
Let us welcome every one of them, and summon
them to take their places by the Christmas hearth.
</p>

<p>
Welcome, old aspirations, glittering creatures
of an ardent fancy, to your shelter underneath
the holly! We know you, and have not outlived
you yet. Welcome, old projects and old loves,
however fleeting, to your nooks among the steadier
lights that burn around us. Welcome, all that
was ever real to our hearts; and for the earnestness
that made you real, thanks to Heaven! Do
we build no Christmas castles in the clouds now?
Let our thoughts, fluttering like butterflies among
these flowers of children, bear witness! Before
<pb n='391'/><anchor id='Pg391'/>
this boy, there stretches out a Future, brighter
than we ever looked on in our old romantic time,
but bright with honor and with truth. Around
this little head on which the sunny curls lie heaped,
the graces sport, as prettily, as airily, as when
there was no scythe within the reach of Time to
shear away the curls of our first-love. Upon
another girl's face near it&mdash;placider but smiling
bright&mdash;a quiet and contented little face, we see
Home fairly written. Shining from the word, as
rays shine from a star, we see how, when our
graves are old, other hopes than ours are young,
other hearts than ours are moved; how other
ways are smoothed; how other happiness blooms,
ripens, and decays&mdash;no, not decays, for other
homes and other bands of children, not yet in
being nor for ages yet to be, arise, and bloom, and
ripen to the end of all!
</p>

<p>
Welcome, every thing! Welcome, alike what
has been, and what never was, and what we hope
may be, to your shelter underneath the holly, to
your places round the Christmas fire, where what
is sits open-hearted! In yonder shadow, do we
see obtruding furtively upon the blaze, an enemy's
face? By Christmas-day we do forgive him!
If the injury he has done us may admit of such
companionship, let him come here and take his
place. If otherwise, unhappily, let him go hence,
assured that we will never injure nor accuse him.
</p>

<p>
On this day, we shut out nothing!
</p>

<p>
<q>Pause,</q> says a low voice. <q>Nothing?
Think!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>On Christmas-day, we will shut out from
our fireside, nothing.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Not the shadow of a vast city where the
withered leaves are lying deep?</q> the voice replies.
<q>Not the shadow that darkens the whole
globe? Not the shadow of the City of the Dead?</q>
</p>

<p>
Not even that. Of all days in the year, we
will turn our faces toward that city upon Christmas-day,
and from its silent hosts bring those
we loved, among us. City of the Dead, in the
blessed name wherein we are gathered together
at this time, and in the Presence that is here
among us according to the promise, we will
receive, and not dismiss, thy people who are dear
to us!
</p>

<p>
Yes. We can look upon these children-angels
that alight, so solemnly, so beautifully, among
the living children by the fire, and can bear to
think how they departed from us. Entertaining
angels unawares, as the Patriarchs did, the playful
children are unconscious of their guests; but
we can see them&mdash;can see a radiant arm around
one favorite neck, as if there were a tempting of
that child away. Among the celestial figures
there is one, a poor mis-shapen boy on earth, of
a glorious beauty now, of whom his dying mother
said it grieved her much to leave him here,
alone, for so many years as it was likely would
elapse before he came to her&mdash;being such a little
child. But he went quickly, and was laid upon
her breast, and in her hand she leads him.
</p>

<p>
There was a gallant boy, who fell, far away,
upon a burning sand beneath a burning sun, and
said, <q>Tell them at home, with my last love, how
much I could have wished to kiss them once, but
that I died contented and had done my duty!</q>
Or there was another, over whom they read the
words, <q>Therefore we commit his body to the
dark!</q> and so consigned him to the lonely ocean,
and sailed on. Or there was another who lay
down to his rest in the dark shadow of great
forests, and, on earth, awoke no more. O shall
they not, from sand and sea and forest, be brought
home at such a time!
</p>

<p>
There was a dear girl&mdash;almost a woman&mdash;never
to be one&mdash;who made a mourning Christmas in
a house of joy, and went her trackless way to the
silent City. Do we recollect her, worn out, faintly
whispering what could not be heard, and falling
into that last sleep for weariness? O look upon
her now! O look upon her beauty, her serenity,
her changeless youth, her happiness! The
daughter of Jairus was recalled to life, to die;
but she, more blest, has heard the same voice,
saying unto her, <q>Arise forever!</q>
</p>

<p>
We had a friend who was our friend from
early days, with whom we often pictured the
changes that were to come upon our lives, and
merrily imagined how we would speak, and walk,
and think, and talk, when we came to be old.
His destined habitation in the City of the Dead
received him in his prime. Shall he be shut out
from our Christmas remembrance? Would his
love have so excluded us? Lost friend, lost
child, lost parent, sister, brother, husband, wife,
we will not so discard you! You shall hold your
cherished places in our Christmas hearts, and
by our Christmas fires; and in the season of
immortal hope, and on the birthday of immortal
mercy, we will shut out nothing!
</p>

<p>
The winter sun goes down over town and village;
on the sea it makes a rosy path, as if the
Sacred tread were fresh upon the water. A few
more moments, and it sinks, and night comes on,
and lights begin to sparkle in the prospect. On
the hill-side beyond the shapelessly diffused town,
and in the quiet keeping of the trees that gird
the village-steeple, remembrances are cut in stone,
planted in common flowers, growing in grass,
entwined with lowly brambles around many a
mound of earth. In town and village, there are
doors and windows closed against the weather,
there are flaming logs heaped high, there are joyful
faces, there is healthy music of voices. Be
all ungentleness and harm excluded from the
temples of the Household Gods, but be those remembrances
admitted with tender encouragement!
They are of the time and all its comforting
and peaceful reassurances; and of the history
that reunited even upon earth the living and
the dead; and of the broad beneficence and goodness
that too many men have tried to tear to narrow
shreds.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Helen Corrie.&mdash;Leaves From The
Note-Book Of A Curate.</head>

<p>
Having devoted myself to the service of Him
who said unto the demoniac and the leper,
<q>Be whole,</q> I go forth daily, treading humbly
in the pathway of my self-appointed mission,
<pb n='392'/><anchor id='Pg392'/>
through the dreary regions, the close and crowded
streets, that exist like a plague ground in the
very heart of the wealthy town of L&mdash;&mdash;.
</p>

<p>
They have an atmosphere of their own, those
dilapidated courts, those noisome alleys, those
dark nooks where the tenements are green with
damp, where the breath grows faint, and the head
throbs with an oppressive pain; and yet, amid
the horrors of such abodes, hundreds of our fellow-creatures
act the sad tragedy of life, and the
gay crowd beyond sweep onward, without a
thought of those who perish daily for want of
the bread of eternal life. Oh! cast it upon those
darkened waters, and it shall be found again after
many days. There we see human nature in all
its unvailed and degraded nakedness&mdash;the vile
passions, the brutal coarseness, the corroding
malice, the undisguised licentiousness. Oh, ye
who look on and abhor, who pass like the Pharisee,
and condemn the wretch by the wayside,
pause, and look within: education, circumstances,
have refined and elevated your thoughts and actions;
but blessed are those who shall never
know by fearful experience how want and degradation
can blunt the finest sympathies, and
change, nay, brutalize the moral being.
</p>

<p>
How have I shuddered to hear the fearful mirth
with whose wild laughter blasphemy and obscenity
were mingled&mdash;that mockery of my sacred
profession, which I knew too well lurked under
the over-strained assumption of reverence for my
words, when I was permitted to utter them, and
the shout of derision that followed too often my
departing steps, knowing that those immortal
souls must one day render up their account; and
humbly have I prayed, that my still unwearied
zeal might yet be permitted to scatter forth the
good seed which the cares and anxieties should
not choke, nor the stony soil refuse!
</p>

<p>
Passing one evening through one of those
dilapidated streets, to which the doors, half torn
from their hinges, and the broken windows, admitting
the raw, cold, gusty winds, gave so comfortless
an aspect, I turned at a sudden angle
into a district which I had never before visited.
Through the low arch of a half-ruined bridge, a
turbid stream rolled rapidly on, augmented by
the late rains. A strange-looking building, partly
formed of wood, black and decaying with age
and damp, leaned heavily over the passing waters;
it was composed of many stories, which
were approached by a wooden stair and shed-like
gallery without, and evidently occupied by many
families. The lamenting wail of neglected children
and the din of contention were heard within.
Hesitating on the threshold, I leant over the
bridge, and perceived an extensive area beneath
the ancient tenement; many low-browed doors,
over whose broken steps the water washed and
rippled, became distinguishable. As I gazed, one
of them suddenly opened, and a pale haggard
woman appeared, shading a flickering light with
her hand. I descended the few slippery wooden
steps leading to the strange abodes, and approached
her. As I advanced, she appeared to
recognize me.
</p>

<p>
<q>Come in, sir,</q> she said hurriedly; <q>there is
one within will be glad to see you;</q> and, turning,
she led me through a winding passage into
a dreary room, whose blackened floor of stone
bore strong evidence that the flood chafed and
darkened beneath it.
</p>

<p>
In an old arm-chair beside the rusty and almost
fireless grate, sat, or rather lay, a pale and fragile
creature, a wreck of blighted loveliness.
</p>

<p>
<q>Helen,</q> said the woman, placing the light
on a rough table near her, <q>here is the minister
come to see you.</q>
</p>

<p>
The person she addressed attempted to rise,
but the effort was too much, and she sank back,
as if exhausted by it. A blush mantled over her
cheek, and gave to her large dark eyes a faint
and fading lustre. She had been beautiful, <emph>very</emph>
beautiful; but the delicate features were sharpened
and attenuated, the exquisite symmetry of
her form worn by want and illness to a mere
outline of its former graceful proportions; yet,
even amid the squalid wretchedness that surrounded
her, an air of by-gone superiority gave
a nameless interest to her appearance, and I approached
her with a respectful sympathy that
seemed strange to my very self.
</p>

<p>
After a few explanatory sentences respecting
my visit, to which she assented by a humble yet
silent movement of acquiescence, I commenced
reading the earnest prayers which the occasion
called for. As I proceeded, the faint chorus of a
drinking song came upon my ears from some far
recesses of this mysterious abode; doors were
suddenly opened and closed with a vault-like
echo, and a hoarse voice called on the woman
who had admitted me; she started suddenly from
her knees, and, with the paleness of fear on her
countenance, left the room. After a moment's
hesitating pause, the invalid spoke in a voice
whose low flute-like tones stole upon the heart
like aerial music.
</p>

<p>
<q>I thank you,</q> she said, <q>for this kind visit,
those soothing prayers. Oh, how often in my
wanderings have I longed to listen to such words!
Cast out, like an Indian pariah, from the pale of
human fellowship, I had almost forgotten how to
pray; but you have shed the healing balm of religion
once more upon my seared and blighted
heart, and I can weep glad tears of penitence, and
dare to hope for pardon.</q>
</p>

<p>
After this burst of excitement, she grew more
calm, and our conversation assumed a devotional
yet placid tenor, until she drew from her bosom
a small packet, and gave it to me with a trembling
hand.
</p>

<p>
<q>Read it, sir,</q> she said; <q>it is the sad history
of a life of sorrow. Have pity as you trace the
record of human frailty, and remember that you
are the servant of the Merciful!</q>
</p>

<p>
She paused, and her cheek grew paler, as if her
ear caught an unwelcome but well-known sound.
A quick step was soon heard in the passage, and
a man entered, bearing a light; he stood a moment
on the threshold, as if surprised, and then
hastily approached us. A model of manly beauty,
his haughty features bore the prevailing characteristics
<pb n='393'/><anchor id='Pg393'/>
of the gipsy blood&mdash;the rich olive cheek,
the lustrous eyes, the long silky raven hair, the
light and flexible form, the step lithe and graceful
as the leopard's; yet were all these perfections
marred by an air of reckless licentiousness.
His attire, which strangely mingled the rich and
gaudy with the worn and faded, added to the
ruffianism of his appearance; and as he cast a
stern look on the pale girl, who shrank beneath
his eye, I read at once the mournful secret of
her despair. With rough words he bade me begone,
and, as the beseeching eye of his victim
glanced meaningly toward the door, I departed,
with a silent prayer in my heart for the betrayer
and the erring.
</p>

<p>
A cold drizzling rain was falling without, and
I walked hastily homeward, musing on the strange
scene in which I had so lately mingled. Seated
in my little study, I drew my table near the fire,
arranged my reading-lamp, and commenced the
perusal of the manuscript confided to my charge.
It was written in a delicate Italian hand upon
uncouth and various scraps of paper, and appeared
to have been transcribed with little attempt
at arrangement, and at long intervals; but
my curiosity added the links to the leading events,
and I gradually entered with deeper interest into
the mournful history.
</p>

<p>
<q>How happy was my childhood!</q> it began.
<q rend='pre'>I can scarcely remember a grief through all that
sunny lapse of years. I dwelt in a beautiful
abode, uniting the verandas and vine-covered
porticoes of southern climes with the substantial
in-door comforts of English luxury. The country
around was romantic, and I grew up in its
sylvan solitudes almost as wild and happy as the
birds and fawns that were my companions.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I was motherless. My father, on her death,
had retired from public life, and devoted himself
to her child. Idolized by him, my wildest wishes
were unrestrained; the common forms of knowledge
were eagerly accepted by me, for I had an
intuitive talent of acquiring any thing which contributed
to my pleasure; and I early discovered
that, without learning to read and write, the
gilded books and enameled desks in my father's
library would remain to me only as so many
splendid baubles; but a regular education, a religious
and intellectual course of study, I never
pursued. I read as I liked, and when I liked.
I was delicate in appearance, and my father feared
to control my spirits, or to rob me of a moment's
happiness. Fatal affection! How did I repay
such misjudging love!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Time flowed brightly on, and I had already
seen sixteen summers, when the <emph>little cloud</emph> appeared
in the sky that so fearfully darkened my
future destiny. In one of our charitable visits to
the neighboring cottages, we formed an acquaintance
with a gentleman who had become an inhabitant
of our village; a fall from his horse
placed him under the care of our worthy doctor,
and he had hired a small room attached to Ashtree
farm, until he recovered from the lingering
effects of his accident. Handsome, graceful, and
insinuating in his address, he captivated my ardent
imagination at once. Unaccustomed to the world,
I looked upon him as the very <q>mould of form;</q>
a new and blissful enchantment seemed to pervade
my being in his presence and my girlish fancy
dignified the delusion with the name of love? My
father was delighted with his society; he possessed
an inexhaustible fund of anecdotes and strange
adventures, was an excellent musician, and had
the agreeable tact of accommodating himself to
the mood of the moment. He was a constant
visitor, and at length became almost domesticated
in our household. Known to us by the name of
Corrie, he spoke of himself as the son of a noble
house, who, to indulge a poetic temperament,
and a romantic passion for rural scenery, had
come forth on a solitary pilgrimage, and cast
aside for a while what he called the iron fetters
of exclusive society. How sweet were our moonlight
ramblings through the deep forest glens;
how fondly we lingered by the Fairies' Well in
the green hollow of the woods, watching the
single star that glittered in its pellucid waters!
And, oh, what passionate eloquence, what romantic
adoration, was poured forth upon my willing
ear, and thrilled my susceptible heart!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Before my father's eye he appeared gracefully
courteous to me, but not a word or glance betrayed
the passion which in our secret interviews
worshiped me as an idol, and enthralled my senses
with the ardency of its homage. This, he told
me, was necessary for my happiness, as my father
might separate us if he suspected that another
shared the heart hitherto exclusively his own.
This was my first deception. Fatal transgression!
I had departed from the path of truth, and
my guardian angel grew pale in the presence of
the tempter. Winter began to darken the valleys;
our fireside circle was enlivened by the
presence of our accomplished guest. On the eve
of my natal day, he spoke of the birth-day fetes
he had witnessed during his Continental and
Oriental rambles, complimented my father on the
antique beauty and massy richness of the gold
and silver plate which, rarely used, decorated the
sideboard in honor of the occasion; and, admiring
the pearls adorning my hair and bosom, spoke
so learnedly on the subject of jewels, that my
father brought forth from his Indian cabinet my
mother's bridal jewels, diamonds, and emeralds
of exquisite lustre and beauty. I had never before
seen these treasures, and our guest joined
in the raptures of my admiration.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>They will adorn my daughter,</q> said my father,
with a sigh, as he closed the casket, and
retired to place it in its safe receptacle.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Yes, my Helen,</q> said my lover, <q>they shall
glitter on that fair brow in a prouder scene, when
thy beauty shall gladden the eyes of England's
nobles, and create envy in her fairest daughters.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I listened with a smile, and, on my father's
return, passed another evening of happiness&mdash;my
last!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>We retired early, and oh, how bright were
the dreams that floated around my pillow, how
sweet the sleep that stole upon me as I painted
the future&mdash;an elysium of love and splendor!
<pb n='394'/><anchor id='Pg394'/>
I was awakened by a wild cry that rang with
agonizing horror through the midnight stillness:
it was the voice of my father. I sprang hastily
from my couch, threw on a wrapper, seized the
night-lamp, and hurried to his chamber. Ruffians
opposed my entrance; the Indian cabinet
lay shattered on the floor, and I beheld my father
struggling in the fierce grasp of a man, who had
clasped his throat to choke the startling cry.
With maniac force I reached the couch, and,
seizing the murderous hand, called aloud for
help. The robber started with a wild execration,
the mask fell from his face, and I beheld
the features of Gilbert Corrie!...</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>When I recovered consciousness, I found
that I had suffered a long illness&mdash;a brain fever,
caused, the strange nurse said, by some sudden
shock. Alas, how dreadful had been that fatal
cause! Sometimes I think my head has never
been cool since; a dull throb of agony presses
yet upon my brow; sometimes it passes away;
my spirits mount lightly, and I can laugh, but
it has a hollow sound&mdash;oh, how unlike the sweet
laughter of by-gone days!...</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>We were in London. My apartments were
sumptuous: all that wealth could supply was
mine; but what a wretch was I amid that scene
of splendor! The destroyer was now the arbiter
of my destiny. I knew his wealth arose from
his nefarious transactions at the gaming-table.
I knew my father was dead; the severe injuries
he had received on that fatal night and the mysterious
disappearance of his daughter had laid
him in his grave. Gilbert Corrie was virtually
his murderer, yet still I loved him! A passion
partaking of delirium bound me to his destiny.
I shrank not from the caress of the felon gamester&mdash;the
plague-stain of sin was upon me&mdash;the
burning plow-shares of the world's scorn lay in
my path, and how was the guilty one to dare the
fearful ordeal? For fallen woman there is <emph>no
return;</emph> no penitence can restore her sullied
brightness; the angel-plumes of purity are scattered
in the dust, and never can the lost one regain
the Eden of her innocence. The world
may pity, may pardon, but never more <emph>respect;</emph>
and, oh, how dreadful to mingle with the pure,
and feel the mark of Cain upon your brow!...</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>A change came suddenly upon Gilbert.
There was no longer the lavish expenditure, the
careless profusion: his looks and tone were altered.
A haggard expression sat upon his handsome
features, and the words of endearment no
longer flowed from his lips; a quick footstep beneath
the window made him start, strange-looking
men visited him, his absences were long, his
garments often changed: the vail was about to
be lifted from my <emph>real</emph> position.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>One night he entered hastily, snatched me
from the luxurious fauteuil on which I rested,
and led me, without answering my questions, to
a hackney-coach. We were speedily whirled
away, and I never again beheld that home of
splendor. By by-paths we entered a close and
murky street, the coach was discharged, I was
hurried over a dark miry road, and, passing
through a court-yard, the gate of which closed
behind us, was led without ceremony into a
wretched apartment, thronged with fierce, ill-looking
men, seated round a table well supplied
with wines and ardent spirits. Our entrance
was hailed with shouts. Gilbert was called by
the name of <q>noble captain</q> to the head of the
table, and I was suffered disregarded to weep
alone. I seated myself at length by the blazing
fire, and then first knew the real horrors of my
destiny.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>From their discourse I gathered that Gilbert
had committed extensive forgeries, and had that
night escaped the pursuit of justice. Bumpers
of congratulation were drunk; plans of robberies
discussed, and the gipsy captain chosen as the
leader of the most daring exploits contemplated.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Since that night, how fearful have been my
vicissitudes! Sometimes, as the splendidly-dressed
mistress of private gambling-rooms, I
have received the selected dupes in a luxurious
boudoir, decoying the victims by fascinating
smiles into the snare laid for them by Gilbert and
his associates. Sometimes, encamping with the
wild gipsy tribe in some hidden dell or woodland
haunt, where their varied spoils were in safe
keeping. Anon, the painted and tinseled queen
of an itinerant show, where Gilbert enacted the
mountebank, and by the brilliance of his fascinating
eloquence drew into his treasury the hard-earned
savings of the rustic gazers.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>To all those degredations have I submitted,
and now, oh, now, more than ever, has the iron
entered into my soul! He has ceased to love
me. I have become an encumbrance; my beauty
has faded from exposure and neglect. I have
sunk beneath his blows, have writhed beneath
the bitterness of his sarcasms, his brutal jests,
his scornful mockery of my penitence and tears.
I have endured the agony of hunger while he
rioted with his companions in profligate luxury;
and yet, if the old smile lights up his countenance,
the old look shines forth from his lustrous eyes,
he is again to me the lover of my youth, and the
past is a hideous dream. Oh, woman's heart,
how unfathomable is thy mystery!</q>
</p>

<p>
The manuscript here ended abruptly. How
sad a moral might be drawn from the history of
this unfortunate! What rare gifts of mind and
beauty had the want of religion marred and blighted!
Had the Sun of Righteousness shone upon
that ardent heart, its aspirations had been glorious,
its course
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l rend='margin-left: 6'><q rend='pre'>Upward! upward!</q></l>
<l>Through the doubt and the dismay</l>
<l><q rend='post'>Upward! to the perfect day!</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
What mournful tragedies are ever around us,
flowing on with the perpetual under-current of
human life, each hour laden with its mystery and
sorrow, sweeping like dim phantoms through the
arch of time, and burying the fearful records in
the oblivion of the abyss beyond! How few of
the floating wrecks are snatched from the darkening
tide!
</p>

<p>
I returned the next day to the dwelling of
Helen, but it was shut up, and in the day-time
<pb n='395'/><anchor id='Pg395'/>
appeared as if long deserted. To all inquiries,
the neighbors answered reluctantly that it had
long been uninhabited, and that its last occupants
had been a gang of coiners, who were now suffering
the penalty of transportation. I often
visited the same district, but all my after-search
was in vain, and the fate of Helen Corrie still
remains an undiscovered mystery.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Good Old Times In Paris.</head>

<p>
The world, since it was a world at all, has
ever been fond of singing the praises of the
good old times. It would seem a general rule,
that so soon as we get beyond a certain age,
whatever that may be, we acquire a high opinion
of the past, and grumble at every thing new under
the sun. One cause of this may be, that distance
lends enchantment to the view, and that the history
of the past, like a landscape traveled over,
loses in review all the rugged and wearisome
annoyances that rendered it scarcely bearable in
the journey. But it is hardly worth while to
speculate upon the causes of an absurdity which
a little candid retrospection will do more to dissipate
than whole folios of philosophy. We can
easily understand a man who sighs that he was
not born a thousand years hence instead of twenty
or thirty years ago, but that any one should
encourage a regret that his lot in life was not
cast a few centuries back, seems inexplicable on
any rational grounds. The utter folly of praising
the good old times may be illustrated by a reference
to the wretched condition of most European
cities; but we shall confine ourselves to the single
case of Paris, now one of the most beautiful
capitals in the world.
</p>

<p>
In the thirteenth century the streets of Paris
were not paved; they were muddy and filthy to
a very horrible degree, and swine constantly
loitered about and fed in them. At night there
were no public lights, and assassinations and
robberies were far from infrequent. At the beginning
of the fourteenth century public lighting
was begun on a limited scale; and at best only
a few tallow candles were put up in prominent
situations. The improvement, accordingly, did
little good, and the numerous bands of thieves
had it still pretty much their own way. Severity
of punishment seldom compensates the want of
precautionary measures. It was the general
custom at this period to cut off the ears of a condemned
thief after the term of his imprisonment
had elapsed. This was done that offenders
might be readily recognized should they dare
again to enter the city, banishment from which
was a part of the sentence of such as were destined
to be cropped. But they often found it
easier to fabricate false ears than to gain a livelihood
away from the arena of their exploits;
and this measure, severe and cruel as it was,
was found inefficient to rid the capital of their
presence.
</p>

<p>
Among the various adventures with thieves,
detailed by an author contemporaneous with
Louis XIII., the following affords a rich example
of the organization of the domestic brigands
of the time, and of the wretched security which
the capital afforded to its inhabitants:
</p>

<p>
A celebrated advocate named Polidamor had
by his reputation for riches aroused the covetousness
of some chiefs of a band of brigands, who
flattered themselves that could they catch him
they would obtain possession of an important
sum. They placed upon his track three bold
fellows, who, after many fruitless endeavors, encountered
him one evening accompanied only by
a single lackey. Seizing fast hold of himself and
attendant, they rifled him in a twinkling; and
as he had accidentally left his purse at home,
they took his rich cloak of Spanish cloth and
silk, which was quite new, and of great value.
Polidamor, who at first resisted, found himself
compelled to yield to force, but asked as a favor
to be allowed to redeem his mantle. This was
agreed to at the price of thirty pistoles; and the
rogues appointed a rendezvous the next day, at
six in the evening, on the same spot, for the purpose
of effecting the exchange. They recommended
him to come alone, assuring him that
his life would be endangered should he appear
accompanied with an escort. Polidamor repaired
to the place at the appointed hour, and after a
few moments of expectation he saw a carriage
approaching in which were seated four persons
in the garb of gentlemen. They descended from
the vehicle, and one of them, advancing toward
the advocate, asked him in a low voice if he were
not in search of a cloak of Spanish cloth and
silk. The victim replied in the affirmative, and
declared himself prepared to redeem it at the sum
at which it had been taxed. The thieves having
assured themselves that he was alone, seized him,
and made him get into the carriage; and one of
them presenting a pistol to his breast, bade him
hold his tongue under pain of instant death, while
another blindfolded him. As the advocate trembled
with fear, they assured him that no harm
was intended, and bade the coachman drive on.
</p>

<p>
After a rapid flight, which was yet long enough
to inspire the prisoner with deadly terror, the
carriage stopped in front of a large mansion, the
gate of which opened to receive them, and closed
again as soon as they had passed the threshold.
The robbers alighted with their captive, from
whose eyes they now removed the bandage. He
was led into an immense saloon, where were a
number of tables, upon which the choicest viands
were profusely spread, and seated at which was
a company of gentlemanly-looking personages,
who chatted familiarly together without the
slightest demonstration of confusion or alarm.
His guardians again enjoined him to lay aside
all fear, informed him that he was in good society,
and that they had brought him there solely that
they might enjoy the pleasure of his company at
supper. In the mean while water was served to
the guests, that they might wash their hands
before sitting at table. Every man took his
place, and a seat was assigned to Polidamor at
the upper and privileged end of the board. Astonished,
or rather stupefied at the strange circumstances
of his adventure, he would willingly
<pb n='396'/><anchor id='Pg396'/>
have abstained from taking any part in the repast;
but he was compelled to make a show of eating,
in order to dissemble his mistrust and agitation.
When the supper was ended and the tables were
removed, one of the gentlemen who had assisted
in his capture accosted him with polite expressions
of regret at his want of appetite. During
the interchange of courtesies which ensued, one
of the bandits took a lute, another a viol, and
the party began to amuse themselves with music.
The advocate was then invited to walk into a
neighboring room, where he perceived a considerable
number of mantles ranged in order. He
was desired to select his own, and to count out
the thirty pistoles agreed upon, together with one
for coach-hire, and one more for his share of the
reckoning at supper. Polidamor, who had been
apprehensive that the drama of which his mantle
had been the occasion might have a very different
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>dénouement</foreign>, was but too well pleased to be
quit at such a cost, and he took leave of the assembly
with unfeigned expressions of gratitude.
The carriage was called, and before entering it
he was again blindfolded; his former conductors
returned with him to the spot where he had been
seized, where, removing the bandage from his
eyes, they allowed him to alight, presenting him
at the same moment with a ticket sealed with
green wax, and having these words inscribed in
large letters, <q><hi rend='italic'>Freed by the Great Band</hi>.</q> This
ticket was a passport securing his mantle, purse,
and person against all further assaults. Hastening
to regain his residence with all speed, he
was assailed at a narrow turning by three other
rascals, who demanded his purse or his life. The
advocate drew his ticket from his pocket, though
he had no great faith in it as a preservative, and
presented it to the thieves. One of them, provided
with a dark lantern, read it, returned it,
and recommended him to make haste home, where
he at last arrived in safety.
</p>

<p>
Early in the seventeenth century the Parisian
rogues availed themselves of the regulations
against the use of snuff to pillage the snuff-takers.
As the sale of this article was forbidden
by law to any but grocers and apothecaries, and
as even they could only retail it to persons provided
with the certificate of a medical man, the
annoyance of such restrictions was loudly complained
of. The rogues, ever ready to profit by
circumstances, opened houses for gaming&mdash;at
that period almost a universal vice&mdash;where <q>snuff
at discretion</q> was a tempting bait to those long
accustomed to a gratification all the more agreeable
because it was forbidden. Here the snuff-takers
were diligently plied with wine, and then
cheated of their money; or, if too temperate or
suspicious to drink to excess, they were unceremoniously
plundered in a sham quarrel. To
such a length was this practice carried, that an
ordinance was at length issued in 1629, strictly
forbidding all snuff-takers from assembling in
public places or elsewhere, <q><foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>pour satisfaire leur
goút</foreign>!</q>
</p>

<p>
The thieves of the good old times were not
only more numerous in proportion to the population
than they are at present, but were also distinguished
by greater audacity and cruelty.&mdash;They
had recourse to the most diabolical ingenuity
to subdue the resistance and to prevent the
outcries of their victims. Under the rule of
Henry IV. a band of brigands arose, who, in the
garb, and with the manners of gentlemen, introduced
themselves into the best houses under the
pretext of private business, and when alone with
the master, demanded his money at the dagger's
point. Some of them made use of a gag&mdash;a
contrivance designated at the period the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>poire
d'angoisse</foreign>. This instrument was of a spherical
shape, and pierced all over with small holes; it
was forced into the mouth of the person intended
to be robbed, and upon touching a spring
sharp points protruded from every hole, at once
inflicting the most horrible anguish, and preventing
the sufferer from uttering a single cry. It
could not be withdrawn but by the use of the
proper key, which contracted the spring. This
device was adopted universally by one savage
band, and occasioned immense misery not only
in Paris, but throughout France.
</p>

<p>
An Italian thief, an enterprising and ingenious
rogue, adopted a singular expedient for robbing
women at their devotions in church. He
placed himself on his knees by the side of his
intended prey, holding in a pair of artificial hands
a book of devotion, to which he made a show of
the most devout attention, while with his natural
hands he cut the watch or purse-string of his
unsuspecting neighbor. This stratagem, favored
by the fashion, then general, of wearing mantles,
met with great success, and of course soon produced
a host of clumsy imitators, and excited
the vigilance of the police, who at length made
so many seizures of solemn-faced devotees provided
with wooden kid-gloved hands, that it fell
into complete discredit, and was at last abandoned
by the profession.
</p>

<p>
Cunning as were the rogues of a past age,
they were liable to capture like their modern
successors. A gentleman having resorted to
Paris on business, was hustled one day in the
precincts of the palace, and robbed of his well-filled
purse. Furious at the loss of a considerable
sum, he swore to be avenged. He procured
a clever mechanic, who, under his directions,
contrived a kind of hand-trap for the pocket, managed
in such a manner as to preclude the possibility
of an attempt at purse-stealing without detection.
Having fixed the instrument in its place,
impatient for the revenge he had promised himself,
he sallied forth to promenade the public
walks, mingled with every group, and stopped
from time to time gazing about him with the air
of a greenhorn. Several days passed before any
thing resulted from his plan; but one morning,
while he was gaping at the portraits of the kings
of France in one of the public galleries, he finds
himself surrounded and pushed about, precisely
as in the former instance; he feels a hand insinuating
itself gently into the open snare, and
hears immediately the click of the instrument,
which assures him that the delinquent is safely
<pb n='397'/><anchor id='Pg397'/>
caught. Taking no notice, he walks on as if
nothing had happened, and resumes his promenade,
drawing after him the thief, whom pain and
shame prevented from making the least effort to
disengage his hand. Occasionally the gentleman
would turn round, and rebuke his unwilling
follower for his importunity, and thus drew the
eyes of the whole crowd upon his awkward position.
At last, pretending to observe for the first
time the stranger's hand in his pocket, he flies
into a violent passion, accuses him of being a cut-purse,
and demands the sum he had previously
lost, without which he declares the villain shall
be hanged. It would seem that compounding a
felony was nothing in those days; for it is upon
record that the thief, though caught in the act,
was permitted to send a messenger to his comrades,
who advanced the money, and therewith
purchased his liberty.
</p>

<p>
The people were forbidden to employ particular
materials in the fabrication of their clothing,
to ride in a coach, to decorate their apartments
as they chose, to purchase certain articles of furniture,
and even to give a dinner-party when and
in what style they chose. Under the Valois régime
strict limits were assigned to the expenses of the
table, determining the number of courses of which
a banquet should consist, and that of the dishes
of which each course was to be composed. Any
guest who should fail to denounce an infraction
of the law of which he had been a witness, was
liable to a fine of forty livres; and officers of
justice, who might be present, were strictly enjoined
to quit the tables of their hosts, and institute
immediate proceedings against them. The
rigor of these regulations extended even to the
kitchen, and the police had the power of entry
at all hours, to enforce compliance with the statutes.
</p>

<p>
But it was during the prevalence of an epidemic
that it was least agreeable to live in France in
the good old times. No sooner did a contagious
malady, or one that was supposed to be so, make
its appearance, than the inhabitants of Paris
were all forbidden to remove from one residence
to another, although their term of tenancy had
expired, until the judge of police had received
satisfactory evidence that the house they desired
to leave had not been affected by the contagion.
When a house was infected, a bundle of straw
fastened to one of the windows warned the public
to avoid all intercourse with the inmates. At
a later period two wooden crosses were substituted
for the straw, one of which was attached
to the front door, and the other to one of the
windows in an upper story. In 1596 the provost
of Paris having learned that the tenants of some
houses infected by an epidemic which was then
making great ravages, had removed these badges,
issued an ordinance commanding that those who
transgressed in a similar manner again should
suffer the loss of the right hand&mdash;a threat which
was found perfectly efficient.
</p>

<p>
By an ordinance of 1533, persons recovering
from a contagious malady, together with their
domestics, and all the members of their families,
were forbidden to appear in the streets for a
given period without a white wand in their hands,
to warn the public of the danger of contact.&mdash;Three
years after, the authorities were yet more
severe against the convalescents, who were ordered
to remain shut up at home for forty days
after their cure; and even when the quarantine
had expired, they were not allowed to appear in
the streets until they had presented to a magistrate
a certificate from the commissary of their
district, attested by a declaration of six house-holders,
that the forty days had elapsed. In the
preceding century (in 1498) an ordinance still
more extraordinary had been issued. It was at
the coronation of Louis XII., when a great number
of the nobles came to Paris to take part in
the ceremony. The provost, desiring to guard
them from the danger of infection, published an
order that all persons of both sexes, suffering
under certain specified maladies, should quit the
capital in twenty-four hours, <emph>under the penalty of
being thrown into the river</emph>!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Vision Of Charles XI.</head>

<p>
We are in the habit of laughing incredulously
at stories of visions and supernatural apparitions,
yet some are so well authenticated, that
if we refuse to believe them, we should, in consistency,
reject all historical evidence. The fact
I am about to relate is guaranteed by a declaration
signed by four credible witnesses; I will
only add, that the prediction contained in this
declaration was well known, and generally spoken
of, long before the occurrence of the events which
have apparently fulfilled it.
</p>

<p>
Charles XI. father of the celebrated Charles
XII. was one of the most despotic, but, at the
same time, wisest monarchs, who ever reigned in
Sweden. He curtailed the enormous privileges
of the nobility, abolished the power of the Senate,
made laws on his own authority; in a word, he
changed the constitution of the country, hitherto
an oligarchy, and forced the States to invest him
with absolute power. He was a man of an enlightened
and strong mind, firmly attached to the
Lutheran religion; his disposition was cold, unfeeling,
and phlegmatic, utterly destitute of imagination.
He had just lost his queen, Ulrica
Eleonora, and he appeared to feel her death more
than could have been expected from a man of his
character. He became even more gloomy and
silent than before, and his incessant application
to business proved his anxiety to banish painful
reflections.
</p>

<p>
Toward the close of an autumn evening, he
was sitting in his dressing-gown and slippers,
before a large fire, in his private apartment. His
chamberlain, Count Brahe, and his physician,
Baumgarten, were with him. The evening wore
away, and his Majesty did not dismiss them as
usual; with his head down and his eyes fixed on
the fire, he maintained a profound silence, weary
of his guests, and fearing, half unconsciously, to
remain alone. The count and his companion
tried various subjects of conversation, but could
interest him in nothing. At length Brahe, who
<pb n='398'/><anchor id='Pg398'/>
supposed that sorrow for the queen was the cause
of his depression, said with a deep sigh, and
pointing to her portrait, which hung in the room,
</p>

<p>
<q>What a likeness that is! How truly it gives
the expression, at once so gentle and so dignified!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Nonsense!</q> said the king, angrily, <q>the portrait
is far too flattering; the queen was decidedly
plain.</q>
</p>

<p>
Then, vexed at his unkind words, he rose and
walked up and down the room, to hide an emotion
at which he blushed. After a few minutes
he stopped before the window looking into the
court; the night was black, and the moon in her
first quarter.
</p>

<p>
The palace where the kings of Sweden now
reside was not completed, and Charles XI. who
commenced it, inhabited the old palace, situated
on the Ritzholm, facing Lake Modu. It is a large
building in the form of a horseshoe: the king's
private apartments were in one of the extremities;
opposite was the great hall where the States assembled
to receive communications from the
crown. The windows of that hall suddenly appeared
illuminated. The king was startled, but
at first supposed that a servant with a light was
passing through; but then, that hall was never
opened except on state occasions, and the light
was too brilliant to be caused by a single lamp.
It then occurred to him that it must be a conflagration;
but there was no smoke, and the glass
was not broken; it had rather the appearance of
an illumination. Brahe's attention being called
to it, he proposed sending one of the pages to ascertain
the cause of the light, but the king stopped
him, saying, he would go himself to the hall. He
left the room, followed by the count and doctor,
with lighted torches. Baumgarten called the man
who had charge of the keys, and ordered him, in
the king's name, to open the doors of the great
hall. Great was his surprise at this unexpected
command. He dressed himself quickly, and
came to the king with his bunch of keys. He
opened the first door of a gallery which served as
an ante-chamber to the hall. The king entered,
and what was his amazement at finding the walls
hung with black.
</p>

<p>
<q>What is the meaning of this?</q> asked he.
</p>

<p>
The man replied, that he did not know what
to make of it, adding, <q>When the gallery was
last opened, there was certainly no hanging over
the oak paneling.</q>
</p>

<p>
The king walked on to the door of the hall.
</p>

<p>
<q>Go no further, for heaven's sake,</q> exclaimed
the man; <q>surely there is sorcery going on inside.
At this hour, since the queen's death, they
say she walks up and down here. May God protect
us!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Stop, sire,</q> cried the count and Baumgarten
together, <q>don't you hear that noise? Who
knows to what dangers you are exposing yourself!
At all events, allow me to summon the
guards.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I will go in,</q> said the king, firmly; <q>open
the door at once.</q>
</p>

<p>
The man's hand trembled so that he could not
turn the key.
</p>

<p>
<q>A fine thing to see an old soldier frightened,</q>
said the king, shrugging his shoulders; <q>come
count, will you open the door?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sire,</q> replied Brahe, <q>let your Majesty command
me to march to the mouth of a Danish or
German cannon, and I will obey unhesitatingly,
but I can not defy hell itself.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well,</q> said the king, in a tone of contempt,
<q>I can do it myself.</q>
</p>

<p>
He took the key, opened the massive oak door,
and entered the hall, pronouncing the words
<q>With the help of God.</q> His three attendants,
whose curiosity overcame their fears, or who,
perhaps, were ashamed to desert their sovereign,
followed him. The hall was lighted by an innumerable
number of torches. A black hanging
had replaced the old tapestry. The benches round
the hall were occupied by a multitude, all dressed
in black; their faces were so dazzlingly bright
that the four spectators of this scene were unable
to distinguish one among them. On an elevated
throne, from which the king was accustomed to
address the assembly, sat a bloody corpse, as if
wounded in several parts, and covered with the
ensigns of royalty; on his right stood a child, a
crown on his head, and a sceptre in his hand; at
his left an old man leant on the throne; he was
dressed in the mantle formerly worn by the administrators
of Sweden, before it became a kingdom
under Gustavus Vasa. Before the throne
were seated several grave, austere looking personages,
in long black robes. Between the throne
and the benches of the assembly was a block
covered with black crape; an ax lay beside it.
No one in the vast assembly appeared conscious
of the presence of Charles and his companions.
On their entrance they heard nothing but a confused
murmur, in which they could distinguish
no words. Then the most venerable of the judges
in the black robes, he who seemed to be their
president, rose, and struck his hand five times on
a folio volume which lay open before him. Immediately
there was a profound silence, and some
young men, richly dressed, their hands tied behind
their backs, entered the hall by a door opposite
to that which Charles had opened. He
who walked first, and who appeared the most important
of the prisoners, stopped in the middle of
the hall, before the block, which he looked at with
supreme contempt. At the same time the corpse
on the throne trembled convulsively, and a crimson
stream flowed from his wounds. The young
man knelt down, laid his head on the block, the
ax glittered in the air for a moment, descended
on the block, the head rolled over the marble
pavement, and reached the feet of the king, and
stained his slipper with blood. Until this moment
surprise had kept Charles silent, but this horrible
spectacle roused him, and advancing two or three
steps toward the throne, he boldly addressed the
figure on its left in the well-known formulary,
<q>If thou art of God, speak; if of the other, leave
us in peace.</q>
</p>

<p>
The phantom answered slowly and solemnly,
<q>King Charles, this blood will not flow in thy
time, but five reigns after.</q> Here the voice became
<pb n='399'/><anchor id='Pg399'/>
less distinct, <q>Woe, woe, woe to the blood
of Vasa!</q> The forms of all the assembly now
became less clear, and seemed but colored shades:
soon they entirely disappeared; the lights were
extinguished; still they heard a melodious noise,
which one of the witnesses compared to the murmuring
of the wind among the trees, another to
the sound a harp string gives in breaking. All
agreed as to the duration of the apparition, which
they said lasted ten minutes. The hangings, the
head, the waves of blood, all had disappeared with
the phantoms, but Charles's slipper still retained
a crimson stain, which alone would have served
to remind him of the scenes of this night, if indeed
they had not been but too well engraven on
his memory.
</p>

<p>
When the king returned to his apartment, he
wrote an account of what he had seen, and he
and his companions signed it. In spite of all the
precautions taken to keep these circumstances
private, they were well known, even during the
lifetime of Charles, and no one hitherto has
thought fit to raise doubts as to their authenticity.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Street-Scenes Of The French Usurpation.</head>

<p>
A writer in Dickens's Household Words
gives a graphic sketch of a visit to Paris during
the recent usurpation of Louis Napoleon, and
of the scenes of butchery which occurred in the
streets. On arriving in Paris, he says, every
thing spoke of the state of siege. The newspapers
were in a state of siege; for the Government
had suspended all but its own immediate
organs. The offices of the sententious <q>Siècle,</q>
the mercurial <q>Presse,</q> the satiric <q>Charivari,</q>
the jovial <q>Journal pour Rire,</q> were occupied
by the military; and, to us English, they whispered
even of a park of artillery in the Rue Vivienne,
and of a government proof-reader in the
printing-office of <q>Galignani's Messenger,</q> striking
out obnoxious paragraphs by the dozen. The
provisions were in a state of siege, the milk
was out, and no one would volunteer to go to
the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>crêmiers</foreign>
for more; the cabs, the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>commissionnaires</foreign>
with their trucks, were besieged; the very
gas was slow in coming from the main, as though
the pipes were in a state of siege. Nobody
could think or speak of any thing but this confounded
siege. Thought itself appeared to be
beleaguered; for no one dared to give it any
thing but a cautious and qualified utterance. The
hotel was full of English ladies and gentlemen,
who would have been delighted to go away by
the first train on any of the railways; but there
might just as well have been no railways, for all
the good they were, seeing that it was impossible
to get to or from the termini with safety. The
gentlemen were valorous, certainly&mdash;there was
a prevalence of <q>who's afraid?</q> sentiments;
but they read the French Bradshaw earnestly,
and gazed at the map of Paris with nervous interest&mdash;beating,
meanwhile, the devil's tattoo.
As for the ladies, dear creatures, they made no
secret of their extreme terror and despair. The
lone old lady, who is frightened at every thing,
and who will not even travel in an omnibus with
a sword in a case, for fear it should go off, was
paralyzed with fear, and could only ejaculate,
<q>Massacre!</q> The strong-minded lady of a certain
age, who had longed for the <q>pride, pomp,
and circumstance of glorious war,</q> had taken
refuge in that excellent collection of tracts, of
which <q>The Dairyman's Daughter,</q> is one; and
gave short yelps of fear whenever the door opened.
Fear, like every other emotion, is contagious.
Remarking so many white faces, so much subdued
utterance, so many cowed and terrified
looks, I thought it very likely that I might get
frightened, too. So, having been up all the previous
night, I went to bed.
</p>

<p>
I slept; I dreamt of a locomotive engine blowing
up and turning into the last scene of a pantomime,
with <q>state of siege</q> displayed in colored
fires. I dreamt I lived next door to an
undertaker, or a trunk-maker, or a manufacturer
of fire-works. I awoke to the rattle of musketry
in the distance&mdash;soon, too soon, to be followed by
the roar of the cannon.
</p>

<p>
I am not a fighting man. <q>'Tis not my vocation,
Hal.</q> I am not ashamed to say that I
did <emph>not</emph> gird my sword on my thigh, and sally out
to conquer or to die; that I did not ensconce myself
at a second floor window, and pick off <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>à la
Charles IX.</foreign>, the leaders of the enemy below.&mdash;Had
I been <q>our own correspondent,</q> I might
have written, in the intervals of fighting, terrific
accounts of the combat on cartridge paper, with
a pen made from a bayonet, dipped in gunpowder
and gore. Had I been <q>our own artist,</q> I might
have mounted a monster barricade&mdash;waving the
flag of Freedom with one hand, and taking sketches
with the other. But being neither, I did not
do any thing of the kind. I will tell you what I
did: I withdrew, with seven Englishmen as valorous
as myself, to an apartment, which I have
reason to believe is below the basement floor;
and there, in company with sundry <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>carafons</foreign> of
particular cognac, and a large box of cigars,
passed the remainder of the day.
</p>

<p>
I sincerely hope that I shall never pass such
another. We rallied each other, talked, laughed,
and essayed to sing; but the awful consciousness
of the horror of our situation hung over us
all&mdash;the knowledge that within a few hundred
yards of us God's image was being wantonly defaced;
that in the streets hard by, in the heart
of the most civilized city of the world, within a
stone's throw of all that is gay, luxurious, splendid,
in Paris, men&mdash;speaking the same language,
worshiping the same God&mdash;were shooting each
other like wild beasts; that every time we heard
the sharp crackling of the musketry, a message
of death was gone forth to hundreds; that every
time the infernal artillery&mdash;<q>nearer, clearer,
deadlier than before</q>&mdash;broke, roaring on the ear,
the ground was cumbered with corpses. Glorious
war! I should like the amateurs of sham
fights, showy reviews, and scientific ball practice,
to have sat with us in the cellar that same Thursday,
and listened to the rattle and the roar. I
should like them to have been present, when
<pb n='400'/><anchor id='Pg400'/>
venturing up during a lull, about half-past four,
and glancing nervously from our <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>porte-cochère</foreign>,
a regiment of dragoons came thundering past,
pointing their pistols at the windows, and shouting
at those within, with oaths to retire from
them. I should like the young ladies who waltz
with the <q>dear Lancers,</q> to have seen <emph>these</emph>
Lancers, in stained white cloaks, with their murderous
weapons couched. I should like those
who admire the Horse Guards&mdash;the prancing
steeds, the shining casques and cuirasses, the
massive epaulets and dangling sabres, the trim
mustache, irreproachable buckskins, and dazzling
jack-boots&mdash;to have seen these cuirassiers
gallop by: their sorry horses covered with mud
and sweat; their haggard faces blackened with
gunpowder; their shabby accoutrements and
battered helmets. The bloody swords, the dirt,
the hoarse voices, unkempt beards. Glorious
war! I think the sight of those horrible troopers
would do more to cure its admirers than all the
orators of the Peace Society could do in a twelve-month!
</p>

<p>
We dined&mdash;without the ladies, of course&mdash;and
sat up until very late; the cannon and musketry
roaring meanwhile, till nearly midnight. Then
it stopped&mdash;
</p>

<p>
To recommence again, however, on the next
(Friday) morning. Yesterday they had been
fighting all day on the Boulevards, from the Madeleine
to the Temple. To-day, they were murdering
each other at Belleville, at La Chapelle St.
Denis, at Montmartre. Happily the firing ceased
at about nine o'clock, and we heard no more.
</p>

<p>
I do not, of course, pretend to give any account
of what really took place in the streets on Thursday;
how many barricades were erected, and how
they were defended or destroyed. I do not presume
to treat of the details of the combat myself,
confining what I have to say to a description
of what I really saw of the social aspect of
the city. The journals have given full accounts
of what brigades executed what manœuvres, of
how many were shot to death here, and how
many bayoneted there.
</p>

<p>
On Friday at noon, the embargo on the cabs
was removed&mdash;although that on the omnibuses
continued; and circulation for foot passengers
became tolerably safe, in the Quartier St. Honoré,
and on the Boulevards. I went into an English
chemist's shop in the Rue de la Paix, for a
bottle of soda-water. The chemist was lying
dead up-stairs, shot. He was going from his shop
to another establishment he had in the Faubourg
Poissonière, to have the shutters shut, apprehending
a disturbance. Entangled for a moment
on the Boulevard, close to the Rue Lepelletier,
among a crowd of well-dressed persons, principally
English and Americans, an order was
given to clear the Boulevard. A charge of Lancers
was made, the men firing their pistols wantonly
among the flying crowd; and the chemist
was shot dead. Scores of similar incidents took
place on that dreadful Thursday afternoon.&mdash;Friends,
acquaintances of my own, had friends,
neighbors, relations, servants, killed. Yet it was
all accident, chance-medley&mdash;excusable, of course.
How were the soldiers to distinguish between insurgents
and sight-seers? These murders were,
after all, but a few of the thorns to be found in
the rose-bush of glorious war!
</p>

<p>
From the street which in old Paris times used
to go by the name of the Rue Royale, and which
I know by the token that there is an English
pastry-cook's on the right-hand side, coming
down; where in old days I used (a small lad
then at the Collège Bourbon) to spend my half-holidays
in consuming real English cheesecakes,
and thinking of home&mdash;in the Rue Royale, now
called, I think, Rue de la République; I walked
on to the place, and by the Boulevard de la Madeleine,
des Italiens, and so by the long line of
that magnificent thoroughfare, to within a few
streets of the Porte St. Denis. Here I stopped,
for the simple reason that a hedge of soldiery
bristled ominously across the road, close to the
Rue de Faubourg Montmartre, and that the commanding
officer would let neither man, woman,
nor child pass. The Boulevards were crowded,
almost impassable in fact, with persons of every
grade, from the <q>lion</q> of the Jockey Club, or the
English nobleman, to the pretty grisette in her
white cap, and the scowling, bearded citizen,
clad in blouse and <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>calotte</foreign>, and looking very
much as if he knew more of a barricade than he chose
to aver. The houses on either side of the way
bore frightful traces of the combat of the previous
day. The Maison Doré, the Café Anglais, the
Opéra Comique, Tortoni's, the Jockey Club, the
Belle Jardinière, the Hôtel des Affaires Etrangères,
and scores, I might almost say hundreds
of the houses had their windows smashed, or the
magnificent sheets of plate-glass starred with
balls; the walls pockmarked with bullets: seamed
and scarred and blackened with gunpowder.
A grocer, close to the Rue de Marivaux, told me
that he had not been able to open his door that
morning for the dead bodies piled on the step before
it. Round all the young trees (the old trees
were cut down for former barricades in February
and June, 1848), the ground shelves a little in a
circle; in these circles there were pools of blood.
The people&mdash;the extraordinary, inimitable, consistently
inconsistent French people&mdash;were unconcernedly
lounging about, looking at these
things with pleased yet languid curiosity. They
paddled in the pools of blood; they traced curiously
the struggles of some wounded wretch,
who, shot or sabred on the curbstone, had painfully,
deviously, dragged himself (so the gouts of
blood showed) to a door-step&mdash;to die. They felt
the walls, pitted by musket bullets; they poked
their walking-sticks into the holes made by the
cannon-balls. It was as good as a play to them.
</p>

<p>
The road on either side was lined with dragoons
armed <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>cap-a-pié</foreign>. The poor tired horses
were munching the forage with which the muddy
ground was strewn; and the troopers sprawled
listlessly about, smoking their short pipes, and
mending their torn costume or shattered accoutrements.
Indulging, however, in the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>dolce far
niente</foreign>, as they seemed to be, they were ready for
<pb n='401'/><anchor id='Pg401'/>
action at a moment's notice. There was, about
two o'clock, an <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>alerte</foreign>&mdash;a rumor of some
tumult toward the Rue St. Denis. One solitary trumpet
sounded <q>boot and saddle;</q> and, with almost
magical celerity, each dragoon twisted a quantity
of forage into a species of rope, which he hung
over his saddle-bow, crammed his half-demolished
loaf into his holsters, buckled on his cuirass;
then, springing himself on his horse, sat motionless:
each cavalier with his pistol cocked,
and his finger on the trigger. The crowd thickened;
and in the road itself there was a single
file of cabs, carts, and even private carriages.
Almost every moment detachments of prisoners,
mostly blouses, passed, escorted by cavalry; then
a yellow flag was seen, announcing the approach
of an ambulance, or long covered vehicle, filled
with wounded soldiers; then hearses; more prisoners,
more ambulances, orderly dragoons at full
gallop, orderlies, military surgeons in their cocked
hats and long frock coats, broughams with
smart general officers inside, all smoking.
</p>

<p>
As to the soldiers, they appear never to leave
off smoking. They smoke in the guard-room, off
duty, and even when on guard. An eye-witness
of the combat told me that many of the soldiers
had, when charging, short pipes in their mouths,
and the officers, almost invariably, smoked cigars.
</p>

<p>
At three, there was more trumpeting, more
drumming, a general backing of horses on the
foot-passengers, announcing the approach of
some important event. A cloud of cavalry came
galloping by; then, a numerous and brilliant
group of staff-officers. In the midst of these,
attired in the uniform of a general of the National
Guard, rode Louis Napoleon Bonaparte.
</p>

<p>
I saw him again the following day in the
Champs Elysée, riding with a single English
groom behind him; and again in a chariot, escorted
by cuirassiers.
</p>

<p>
When he had passed, I essayed a further progress
toward the Rue St. Denis; but the hedge
of bayonets still bristled as ominously as ever.
I went into a little tobacconist's shop; and the
pretty <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>marchande</foreign> showed me a frightful trace of
the passage of a cannon ball, which had gone
right through the shutter and glass, smashed
cases on cases of cigars, and half demolished
the little tobacconist's parlor.
</p>

<p>
My countrymen were in great force on the
Boulevards, walking arm and arm, four abreast,
as it is the proud custom of Britons to do. From
them, I heard, how Major Pongo, of the Company's
service, would certainly have placed his
sword at the disposal of the Government in support
of law and order, had he not been confined
to his bed with a severe attack of rheumatism:
how Mr. Bellows, Parisian correspondent to the
<q>Evening Grumbler,</q> had been actually led out
to be shot, and was only saved by the interposition
of his tailor, who was a sergeant in the
National Guard; and who, passing by, though
not on duty, exerted his influence with the military
authorities, to save the life of Mr. Bellows; how the
Reverend Mr. Faldstool, <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>ministre Anglican</foreign>,
was discovered in a corn-bin, moaning
piteously: how Bluckey, the man who talked so
much about the Pytchley hounds, and of the
astonishing leaps he had taken when riding after
them, concealed himself in a coal-cellar, and lying
down on his face, never stirred from that position
from noon till midnight on Thursday (although
I, to be sure, have no right to taunt him with
his prudence): how, finally, M'Gropus, the Scotch
surgeon, bolted incontinently in a cab, with an
immense quantity of luggage, toward the <hi rend='italic'>Chemin-de-fer
du Nord</hi>; and, being stopped in the Rue
St. Denis, was ignominiously turned out of his
vehicle by the mob; the cab, together with
M'Gropus's trunks, being immediately converted
into the nucleus of a barricade:&mdash;how, returning
the following morning to see whether he
could recover any portion of his effects, he found
the barricades in the possession of the military,
who were quietly cooking their soup over a fire
principally fed by the remnants of his trunks
and portmanteaus; whereupon, frantically endeavoring
to rescue some <hi rend='italic'>disjecta membra</hi> of his
property from the wreck, he was hustled and
bonneted by the soldiery, threatened with arrest,
and summary military vengeance, and ultimately
paraded from the vicinity of the bivouac, by bayonets
with sharp points.
</p>

<p>
With the merits or demerits of the struggle, I
have nothing to do. But I saw the horrible ferocity
and brutality of this ruthless soldiery. I
saw them bursting into shops, to search for arms
or fugitives; dragging the inmates forth, like
sheep from a slaughter-house, smashing the furniture
and windows. I saw them, when making
a passage for a convoy of prisoners, or a wagon
full of wounded, strike wantonly at the bystanders,
with the butt-ends of their muskets, and
thrust at them with their bayonets. I might
have seen more; but my exploring inclination
was rapidly subdued by a gigantic Lancer at the
corner of the Rue Richelieu; who seeing me
stand still for a moment, stooped from his horse,
and putting his pistol to my head (right between
the eyes) told me to <q><foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>traverser</foreign>!</q> As I
believed he would infallibly have blown my brains
out in another minute, I turned and fled. So
much for what I saw. I know, as far as a man
can know, from trustworthy persons, from eye-witnesses,
from patent and notorious report, that
the military, who are now the sole and supreme
masters of that unhappy city and country, have
been perpetrating most frightful barbarities since
the riots were over. I know that, from the
Thursday I arrived, to the Thursday I left Paris,
they were daily shooting their prisoners in cold
blood; that a man, caught on the Pont Neuf,
drunk with the gunpowder-brandy of the cabarets,
and shouting some balderdash about the <hi rend='italic'>République
démocratique et sociale</hi>, was dragged into
the Prefecture of Police, and, some soldiers' cartridges
having been found in his pocket, was
led into the court-yard, and there and then,
untried, unshriven, unaneled&mdash;shot! I know
that in the Champ de Mars one hundred and
fifty-six men were executed; and I <emph>heard</emph> one
horrible story (so horrible that I can scarcely
<pb n='402'/><anchor id='Pg402'/>
credit it) that a batch of prisoners were tied together
with ropes like a fagot of wood; and that
the struggling mass was fired into, until not a
limb moved, nor a groan was uttered. I know&mdash;and
my informant was a clerk in the office of
the Ministry of War&mdash;that the official return of
insurgents killed was <emph>two thousand and seven</emph>,
and of soldiers <emph>fifteen</emph>. Rather long odds!
</p>

<p>
We were in-doors betimes this Friday evening,
comparing notes busily, as to what we had
seen during the day. We momentarily expected
to hear the artillery again, but, thank Heaven,
the bloodshed in the streets at least was over;
and though Paris was still a city in a siege, the
barricades were all demolished; and another
struggle was for the moment crushed.
</p>

<p>
The streets next day were full of hearses; but
even the number of funerals that took place were
insignificant, in comparison to the stacks of
corpses which were cast into deep trenches without
shroud or coffin, and covered with quicklime.
I went to the Morgue in the afternoon, and found
that dismal charnel-house fully tenanted. Every
one of the fourteen beds had a corpse; some,
dead with gunshot wounds; some, sabred; some,
horribly mutilated by cannon-balls. There was
a <emph>queue</emph> outside of at least two thousand people,
laughing, talking, smoking, eating apples, as
though it was some pleasant spectacle they were
going to, instead of that frightful exhibition. Yet,
in this laughing, talking, smoking crowd, there
were fathers who had missed their sons; sons
who came there dreading to see the corpses of
their fathers; wives of Socialist workmen, sick
with the almost certainty of finding the bodies
of their husbands. The bodies were only exposed
six hours; but the clothes remained&mdash;a
very grove of blouses. The neighboring churches
were hung with black, and there were funeral
services at St. Roch and at the Madeleine.
</p>

<p>
And yet&mdash;with this Golgotha so close; with
the blood not yet dry on the Boulevards; with
corpses yet lying about the streets; with five
thousand soldiers bivouacking in the Champs
Elysées; with mourning and lamentation in almost
every street; with a brutal military in almost
every printing-office, tavern, café; with
proclamations threatening death and confiscation
covering the walls; with the city in a siege,
without a legislature, without laws, without a
government&mdash;this extraordinary people was, the
next night, dancing and flirting at the Salle Valentino,
or the Prado, lounging in the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>foyers</foreign> of
the Italian Opera, gossiping over their
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>eau-sucrée</foreign>,
or squabbling over their dominoes outside and
inside the cafés. I saw Rachel in <q>Les Horaces;</q>
I went to the <hi rend='italic'>Variétés</hi>, the <hi rend='italic'>Opéra Comique</hi>,
and no end of theatres; and as we walked home
at night through lines of soldiers, brooding over
their bivouacs, I went into a restaurant, and asking
whether it had been a ball which had starred the
magnificent pier-glass before me, got for answer,
<q>Ball, sir!&mdash;cannon-ball, sir!&mdash;yes, sir!</q> for all
the world as though I had inquired about the mutton
being in good cut, or asparagus in season!
</p>

<p>
So, while they were shooting prisoners and
dancing the Schottische at the Casino; burying
their dead; selling <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>breloques</foreign> for watch-chains
in the Palais Royal; demolishing barricades, and
staring at the caricatures in M. Aubert's windows;
taking the wounded to the hospitals, and
stock-jobbing on the Bourse; I went about my
business, as well as the state of siege would let
me. Turning my face homeward, I took the
Rouen and Havre Railway, and so, <foreign rend='italic'>viâ</foreign> Southampton,
to London. As I saw the last cocked
hat of the last gendarme disappear with the receding
pier at Havre, a pleasant vision of the
blue-coats, oil-skin hats, and lettered collars of
the land I was going to, swam before my eyes;
and, I must say that, descending the companion-ladder,
I thanked Heaven I was an Englishman.
I was excessively sea-sick, but not the less thankful;
and getting at last to sleep, dreamed of the
Bill of Rights and Habeas Corpus. I wonder
how <emph>they</emph> would flourish amidst Liberty, Equality,
Fraternity, and Musketry!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>What Becomes Of The Rind?</head>

<p>
Of all the occupations that exercise the ordinary
energies of human beings, the most abstracting
is that of sucking an orange. It seems
to employ the whole faculties for the time being.
There is an earnestness of purpose in the individual
so employed&mdash;an impassioned determination
to accomplish what he has undertaken&mdash;that
creates a kindred excitement in the bystanders.
His air is thoughtful; his eye severe, not to say
relentless; and although his mouth is full of
inarticulate sounds, conversation is out of the
question. But the mind is busy although the
tongue is silent; and when the deed is accomplished,
the collapsed spheroid seems to swell
anew with the ideas to which the exercise had
given birth. One of these ideas we shall catch
and fix, for occurring as it did to ourselves, it is our
own property: it was contained in the question
that rose suddenly in our mind as we looked at the
ruin we had made&mdash;What becomes of the rind?
</p>

<p>
And this is no light question; no unimportant
or merely curious pastime for a vacant moment.
In our case it became more and more serious; it
clung and grappled, till it hung upon our meditations
like the albatross round the neck of the
Ancient Mariner. Only consider what a subject
it embraces. The orange, it is true, and its congener
the lemon, are Celestial fruits, owing their
origin to the central flowery land; but, thanks
to the Portuguese, they are now domesticated in
Europe, and placed within the reach of such
northern countries as ours, where the cold prohibits
their growth. Some of us no doubt force
them in an artificial climate, at the expense of
perhaps half a guinea apiece; but the bulk of
the nation are content to receive them from other
regions at little more than the cost of apples. Now
the quantity we (the English) thus import every
year from the Azores, Spain, Portugal, Italy,
Malta, and other places, is about 300,000 chests,
and each of these chests contains about 650 oranges,
all wrapped separately in paper. But beside
these we are in the habit of purchasing a
<pb n='403'/><anchor id='Pg403'/>
large quantity, entered at the custom-house by
number, and several thousand pounds' worth,
entered at value; so that the whole number of
oranges and lemons we consume in this country
may be reckoned modestly at 220,000,000! Surely,
then, it is not surprising that while engaged
in the meditative employment alluded to, we
should demand with a feeling of strong interest&mdash;What
becomes of the rind?
</p>

<p>
Every body knows that Scotch marmalade uses
up the rinds of a great many Seville oranges, as
well as an unknown quantity of turnip skins and
stalks of the bore-cole, the latter known to the
Caledonian manipulators of the preserve as <q>kail-custocks.</q>
Every body understands also, that
not a few of the rinds of edible oranges take up
a position on the pavement, where their mission
is to bring about the downfall of sundry passers-by
thus accomplishing the fracture of a not inconsiderable
number&mdash;taking one month with
another throughout the season&mdash;of arms, legs,
and occiputs. It is likewise sufficiently public
that a variety of drinks are assisted by the hot,
pungent rinds of oranges and lemons as well as
by the juice; but notwithstanding all these deductions,
together with that of the great quantity
thrown away as absolute refuse, we shall find a
number of rinds unaccounted for large enough to
puzzle by its magnitude the Statistical Society.
This mystery, however, we have succeeded in
penetrating, and although hardly hoping to carry
the faith of the reader along with us, we proceed
to unfold it: it is contained in the single monosyllable,
<emph>peel</emph>.
</p>

<p>
Orange-peel, lemon-peel, citron-peel&mdash;these are
the explanation: the last-mentioned fruit&mdash;imported
from Sicily, Madeira, and the Canary Islands&mdash;being
hardly distinguishable from a lemon
except by its somewhat less acid pulp and more
pungent rind. Even a very careless observer can
hardly fail to be struck at this season by the heaps
of those candied rinds displayed in the grocers'
windows; but the wildest imagination could not
guess at any thing so extravagant as the quantity
of the fruit thus used; and even when we
learn that upward of 600 <emph>tons of peel</emph> are manufactured
in the year, it is a hopeless task to attempt
to separate that prodigious bulk into its
constituent parts. Six hundred tons of candied
peel! of a condiment employed chiefly if not
wholly, in small quantities in the composition of
puddings and cakes. Six hundred tons&mdash;12,000
hundredweights&mdash;1,344,000 pounds&mdash;21,504,000
ounces! But having once got possession of the
fact, see how suggestive it is. Let us lump the
puddings and cakes in one; let us call them all
puddings&mdash;plum-puddings of four pounds' weight.
We find, on consulting the best authorities&mdash;for
we would not presume to dogmatize on such a
subject&mdash;that the quantity of peel used in the
composition of such a work is two ounces; and
thus we are led to the conclusion that we Britishers
devour in the course of a year 10,752,000
full-sized, respectable plum-puddings, irrespective
of all such articles as are not adorned and
enriched with candied peel.
</p>

<p>
Citrons intended for peel are imported in brine,
but oranges and lemons in boxes. All are ripe
in December, January, and February; but as it
would be inconvenient to preserve so vast a
quantity at the same time, the juice is squeezed
out, and the collapsed fruit packed in pipes, with
salt and water, till wanted. When the time for
preserving comes, it is taken from the pipes, and
boiled till soft enough to admit of the pulp being
scooped out; then the rind is laid in tubs or cisterns,
and melted sugar poured over it. Here it
lies for three or four weeks; and then the sugar
is drained away, and the rind placed on trays in
a room constructed for the purpose. It now assumes
the name of <q>dried peel,</q> and is stored
away in the original orange and lemon boxes, till
wanted for candying.
</p>

<p>
The other constituents of a plum-pudding add
but little testimony on the subject of number.
We can not even guess the proportion of the
170,000 lbs. of nutmegs we receive from the Moluccas,
and our own possessions in the Malay
Straits, which may be thus employed; nor how
much cinnamon Ceylon sends us for the purpose
in her annual remittance of about 16,000 lbs.;<note place='foot'>This is
from McCulloch; but the home-consumption
duty was lowered in 1842, from 6d. to 3d. per lb., and the
consumption is now in all probability much greater.</note>
nor what quantity of almonds is abstracted, with
a similar view, from the 9000 cwts. we retain for
our own consumption from the importations from
Spain and Northern Africa. Currants are more
to our purpose&mdash;for that small Corinth grape, the
produce of the islands of Zante, Cephalonia, and
Ithaca, and of the Morea, which comes to us so
thickly coated with dust that we might seem to
import vineyard and all&mdash;belongs, like the candied
peel, almost exclusively to cakes and puddings.
Of this fruit we devour in the year about
180,000 cwts. Raisins, being in more general
use&mdash;at the dessert, for instance, and in making
sweet wine&mdash;are in still greater demand; we can
not do with less than 240,000 cwts of them.
They are named from the place where they grow&mdash;such
as Smyrna or Valencia; or from the
grape&mdash;such as muscatel, bloom, or sultana; but
the quality depends, we believe, chiefly on the
mode of cure. The best are called raisins of the
sun, and are preserved by cutting half through
the stalks of the branches when nearly ripe, and
leaving them to dry and candy in the genial rays.
The next quality is gathered when completely
ripe, dipped in a lye of the ashes of the burned
tendrils, and spread out to bake in the sun. The
inferior is dried in an oven. The black Smyrna
grape is the cheapest; and the muscatels of Malaga
are the dearest.
</p>

<p>
With flour, sugar, brandy, &amp;c., we do not propose
to interfere; for although the quantities of
these articles thus consumed are immense, they
bear but a small proportion to the whole importations.
Eggs, however, are in a different category.
Eggs are essential to the whole pudding
race; and without having our minds opened, as
they now are, to the full greatness of the plum-pudding,
it would be difficult for us to discover
<pb n='404'/><anchor id='Pg404'/>
the rationale of the vast trade we carry on in
eggs. In our youthful days, when, as yet, plum-puddingism
was with us in its early, empirical
state, we used to consider <q>egg-merchant</q> a
term of ridicule, resembling the term <q>timber-merchant,</q>
as applied to a vender of matches.
But we now look with respect upon an egg-merchant,
as an individual who manages an important
part of the trade of this country with France
and Belgium; not to mention its internal traffic
in the same commodity. It strikes us, however,
that on this subject the Frenchman and Belgian
are wiser in their generation than ourselves. We
could produce our own eggs easily enough if we
would take the trouble; but rather than do this we
hire them to do it for us, at an expense of several
scores of thousands sterling in the year. They,
of course, are very much obliged to us, though a
little amused no doubt at the eccentricity of John
Bull; and with the utmost alacrity supply us
annually with about 90,000,000 eggs. John eats
his foreign pudding, however&mdash;he is partial to
foreign things&mdash;with great gravity, and only unbends
into a smile when he sees his few chickens
hopping about the farm-yard, the amusement
of his children, or the little perquisite, perhaps,
of his wife. He occasionally eats a newly-laid
egg, the date of its birth being carefully registered
upon the shell; thinks it a very clever
thing in him to provide his own luxuries; and is
decidedly of opinion that an English egg is worth
two of the mounseers'. His neglect of this branch
of rural economy, however, does not prevent his
wondering sometimes how these fellows contrive
to make the two ends of the year meet, when he
himself finds it so difficult a matter to get plums
to his pudding.
</p>

<p>
What becomes of the rind? We have shown
what becomes of the rind. We have shown what
apparently inconsiderable matters swell up the
commerce of a great country. A plum-pudding
is no joke. It assembles within itself the contributions
of the whole world, and gives a fillip
to industry among the most distant tribes and nations.
But it is important likewise in other respects.
Morally and socially considered, its influence
is immense. At this season of the year,
more especially, it is a bond of family union, and
a symbol of friendly hospitality. We would not
give a straw for that man, woman, or child, in
the frank, cordial circles of Old English life, who
does not hail its appearance on the table with a
smile and a word of welcome. Look at its round,
brown, honest, unctuous face, dotted with almonds
and fragrant peel, surmounted with a
sprig of holly, and radiant amid the flames of
burning brandy! Who is for plum-pudding?
We are, to be sure. What a rich perfume as it
breaks on the plate! And this fragrant peel, so
distinguishable amid the exhalations! ha!
Delaeioucious!&mdash;<emph>that's</emph>
what becomes of the rind!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Mazzini, The Italian Liberal.</head>

<p>
Giuseppe Mazzini is descended from a
highly honorable family, and of talented and
respectable parentage; his father was an esteemed
physician, and also professor of anatomy
at the University in Genoa, his native city. His
mother is still living, an excellent and dignified
lady, as proud of her Giuseppe, as Madame Letitia
was of her Napoleon.
</p>

<p>
When young, Mazzini was remarkably handsome,
and will be deemed so now in his mature
years, by all who, in the expression of his countenance,
his dark intelligent eye, and expansive
intellectual forehead, can overlook the deep, we
may say premature furrows, traced in that forehead
by the never resting labors of a mind of indomitable
activity, the constantly renewing anxieties
of a generous heart for the welfare of the
human race; and above all for that oppressed
portion of it which claimed his earliest sympathies,
as his compatriots, his brothers, alike in
the wrongs they labored under, and their determined
resolution to combat with them in every
shape, and to win in the contest, either a glorious
victory, or an honorable death. The youth
of Mazzini was spent in witnessing the struggles
of his country for liberty. The fruitlessness of
all these struggles, the conviction they carried
with them in their repeated defeats, that there
was something radically wrong in their organization,
or in the manner in which they were carried
out, only excited ardent desires in him to trace the
evil to its root, and point out the remedy accordingly:
his genius naturally bent toward studies,
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
<q>High passions and high actions best describing,</q>
</p>
</quote>

<p>
concentrated all its energies upon the situation
of Italy, and on the means of rescuing her from
the despotism that preyed upon her very vitals,
and rendered even the choicest gifts of nature,
with which she is so abundantly endowed, not
merely nugatory, but an absolute disadvantage
and a curse.
</p>

<p>
The revolution in France of July, 1830, communicated
an electric flame throughout Italy,
which in the ensuing year kindled insurrections
in Modena, Parma, and other departments: the
light of victory hovered over them for a moment,
but for a moment only. Aid had been hoped for
from the Citizen King, but in his very outset
Louis Philippe evinced the political caution which
marked his reign. Austria, reassured by the conviction
she felt of his determination to remain
neuter in the struggles of others for the same
freedom which had placed himself upon a throne,
again advanced upon the cities she had evacuated;
the insurgents disappointed, bewildered,
paralyzed, offered no further resistance, and
again all was wrapped in the gloom of despotism.
Then came its invariable attendant denunciations,
imprisonments, exile, to all who were suspected
of a love of liberty, whether it had impelled them
to deeds, or only influenced their words.
</p>

<p>
Mazzini, though a very young man at this
period, was already known in Italy as an author.
He had published a weekly literary Gazette, at
Genoa, in 1828, called the <q><hi rend='italic'>Indicatore Genovese,</hi></q>
but this journal being strangled, ere the year was
out, under the double supervision of a civil and
an ecclesiastical censorship, he began another at
Leghorn under the title of the <q><hi rend='italic'>Indicatore Livornese</hi></q>
<pb n='405'/><anchor id='Pg405'/>
which in a few months succumbed under
the same fate. He then beguiled his forced inactivity
with furnishing an admirable essay on
European literature, and other contributions, to
the <q><hi rend='italic'>Antologia di Firenze</hi>,</q> but the review was
made the subject of a prosecution, soon after its
commencement, at the instigation of the Austrian
government, and was finally suppressed. Under
these circumstances it was not likely that Mazzini
would escape the fate of his party. He was put
under arrest, along with many others, though it
should seem that the strongest accusation which
could be brought against him was that he indulged
in habits of thinking; for when his father went
to the governor of the city to inquire what offense
his son had committed, that could authorize his
arrest, the worthy functionary, who appears himself
to have belonged to the <hi rend='italic'>Dogberry</hi> faction,
could only allege that the young man was <q>in
the habit of walking every evening in the fields
and gardens of the suburbs, alone, and wrapped
in meditation;</q> wisely adding, as his own comment
on the matter, <q>What on earth can he
have at his age to think about? we do not like
so much thinking on the part of young people,
without knowing the subject of their thoughts.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mazzini and his companions were tried at
Turin by a commission of Senators, embodied for
the purpose; they were all acquitted for want
of any evidence against them, of evil acts or intentions:
nevertheless Mazzini, notwithstanding
this virtual acknowledgment of his innocence,
was treated with the severity due only to convicted
guilt, and detained five months in solitary
imprisonment, in the fortress of Savona; a tyrannical
act of injustice, not likely to turn the current
of his thoughts, or to cure him of his meditative
propensities. At length his prison doors
were reluctantly opened to him&mdash;he was free to
depart, but not to remain in Italy; accordingly
he took refuge in France, along with a crowd of
exiles under similar circumstances, and it was
there, in June 1831, that the fruits of his long-nursed
musings burst forth, in his address to
Charles Albert of Savoy, <q><hi rend='italic'>A Carlo Alberto di
Savoia un Italiano</hi>,</q> on the accession of that
prince to the throne of Sardinia. This address
has been justly termed by Mariotti, <q>a flash of
divine eloquence, such as never before shone over
Italy. His companions in misfortune gathered
in adoration, and bent before his powerful genius.
Ere the year had elapsed, he became the heart
and soul of the Italian movement. He was the
ruler of a state of his own creation&mdash;the king of
Young Italy.</q>
</p>

<p>
Eager to turn his popularity, alike with his
abilities, to the best account for his country,
Mazzini now established himself at Marseilles,
as the editor of a journal to which he gave the
name of <q><hi rend='italic'>La Giovine Italia</hi>,</q> as the expression
of his favorite theory of intrusting the great
cause of Italian liberty to the young, the ardent,
the hopeful; and moreover the unpledged and
therefore unfettered; rather than to those who,
grown old under a timid, temporizing policy, endeavored
in vain to disentangle themselves from
the net of foreign diplomacy; and who, while
they flattered themselves they were endeavoring
to rescue their country from slavery, were in fact
still themselves the slaves of high-sounding names,
and veered round with all the changing views of
those who bore them.
</p>

<p>
Anxious to enlist in his cause the finest talents
of the day, Mazzini invited many persons of acknowledged
reputation and ability to contribute
to his journal; among them the venerable and
justly celebrated Sismondi, author of the <q>History
of the Italian Republics,</q> and many other
works of importance. Sismondi willingly complied,
for he loved the high-minded character of
the young Italian, and was glad to share in his
literary labors, in order that he might be able occasionally
to rein in, with a gentle yet judicious
hand, the too impetuous spirit which, in fearlessly
endeavoring to overleap every obstacle that stood
before it, overlooked the destruction that might
await an error of calculation: he therefore immediately
replied, <q>If by my name, my example,
I can be useful to that Italy which I love as if it
were my own country, which I shall never cease to
serve, to the very utmost of my ability, and for
which I shall never cease to hope, then most
willingly do I promise you my co-operation.</q>
</p>

<p>
The generous ardor of the Genevese <hi rend='italic'>Economiste</hi>
was not more pleasing to behold than the filial
deference of the young republican; for Sismondi
spared neither remonstrance nor advice, where
he thought the interests of his young colleague,
or of the sacred cause in which he was embarked,
likely to be endangered by his precipitancy. But
neither arguments nor advice had any power over
the fixed idea in Mazzini's mind that Italian liberty
was to spring forth from the Italian people,
and that Italy, formerly free in her numerous
republics, would, after five hundred years of
slavery, become free again in one, alone and indivisible.
Meanwhile his journal extended its
circulation and its influence: supplied through
the channel of an active correspondence with
abundant information of all that was going on
in the peninsula, he astonished and excited the
public more and more every day, by the facts he
laid before them; he unvailed the cruelties of the
tribunals in Romagna, of the government in Modena,
of the police in Naples; he brought forth
the unhappy prisoners from their cells, and portrayed
them in every varied attitude of their sufferings,
with a vividness that thrilled the compassionate
with horror, and worked the ardent up
to rage. It would be difficult for us in our own
present state of <emph>press</emph> and <emph>post</emph>, to imagine the
possibility of our counties remaining days and
weeks in ignorance of what was passing among
each other. Yet so it was in the Italian provinces:
under the lynx-eyed vigilance of government officials
and spies, the public journals contained
little more than details of church ceremonies, or
the local affairs of petty municipalities: pamphlets
were unknown, and news of a political kind traveled
slowly and uncertainly from mouth to mouth,
always in dread of some listening ear being ready
to catch the words as they floated in the air.
<pb n='406'/><anchor id='Pg406'/>
Hence the transactions in Romagna and Naples
were long unknown to upper Italy; the excitement
therefore that the appearance of Mazzini's
journal must have occasioned, revealing as it did
facts upon facts calculated to inspire even the
most indifferent with a thirst for vengeance, may
easily be imagined, but the modes by which it
found circulation under every obstacle are more
difficult to comprehend. It is scarcely necessary
to say how strictly it was prohibited throughout
Italy; the possession of it was denounced as a
crime, to be punished with three years of the
galleys, besides the possessor being subjected for
the remainder of his days to the suspicion of being
connected with revolutionary factions. The
smugglers, albeit accustomed to danger and little
susceptible of fear, refused to have any thing to
do with it; nevertheless its distribution was effected
far and wide; copies were dispatched from
Marseilles, by merchant vessels, in parcels directed
to persons at places fixed upon for the
purpose of receiving them; they thus reached
the Committees of <q>Young Italy</q> in each city,
and were by them transmitted to the subscribers,
that is to say, to every one conjoined to the cause;
thus the Society itself remained in the shade,
while the journal, passed from hand to hand, was
every where eagerly perused. In many places it
was left, in the obscurity of evening, upon the
thresholds of the shops, and at the doors of the
theatres, <foreign rend='italic'>cafés</foreign>, and other frequented places.
Never was a periodical paper edited with such
marvelous activity, or circulated with such unshaken
courage. The leaders risked their heads
in its service, and not one of them hesitated so to
do. In the same manner has the clandestine
press at Rome, since the reinstatement of the
priestly government, fearlessly pursued its task
of exposing the cruelties, injustice, and meanness
of that government in its every act&mdash;and
the cardinals have not unfrequently had to go to
breakfast, with what appetite they might, after
finding on their tables a sheet, of which the ink
had not had time to dry, wherein their unworthy
deeds were set forth and commented upon, in the
accents of all others strangest to <q>ears polite</q>&mdash;that
is to say, of <emph>truth</emph>.
</p>

<p>
The effect of <q><hi rend='italic'>La Giovine Italia</hi></q> upon the
public mind became more and more developed
every day. Genoa and Alexandria were the first
to show its influence. Turin, Chamberry, and
Lombardy followed. Central Italy, crushed for
the moment, remained passive; but the flag of
republicanism was unfurled, it only waited the
moment to lift it up, and that moment came,
every way, too soon. The government of Charles
Albert was the first to take hostile measures
against Young Italy. It saw that the influence
of the party was beginning to spread in the
army; and it immediately pointed its cannons
against Genoa; three persons were executed in
that city, three at Chamberry, and six at Alexandria;
while Austria stocked her favorite fortress
of Speilberg with such as were objects of
suspicion, but against whom no charge could be
substantiated. These rigorous measures struck
terror through the peninsula, and instantly stopped
the propagandism of the journal; still hundreds
of emigrants, fearful of being compromised,
poured in from Italy, and the police redoubled
its vigilance in watching over their proceedings.
But a step backward was what Mazzini never
could take; he looked his dangers full in the
face, and tempted fate, not only for himself, but,
unhappily, for his colleagues also. The sufferings
of his party seemed to call upon him for
vengeance, and he sought it by joining himself
to a Polish committee, and projecting the attempt
upon Savoy, in 1833.
</p>

<p>
It is a singular fact in the moral history of
man, that in the course of his life he almost invariably
falls into some error, or commits some
fault, which he has either condemned, or suffered
from, in others. This appears to have been notoriously
the case in this ill-planned, ill-organized,
ill-conducted expedition. It was planned in a
secret society, whereas Mazzini had always advocated
open appeals to the people; he had always
inculcated distrust of heads of parties, and
he intrusted the command of the troops to General
Romarino, a Pole, He had insisted upon
the necessity of whole provinces rising <foreign rend='italic'>en masse</foreign>,
if a revolution was to be effected, and he saw
General Romarino set out from Geneva, to carry
Savoy, with a handful of men. Mazzini himself,
with his utmost efforts, scarcely got together five
hundred followers, of whom not one half were
Italians; and it was with difficulty that they,
tracked every where by the police, succeeded in
rallying at the small village of Annemasse, to
the amount of two hundred; when lo! Romarino,
who had always shown himself wavering
and undecided, turned his back upon them, even
before they had cast eyes upon the enemy&mdash;and
thus in one single day did Mazzini see vanish at
once, the hopes and toils of two years of incessant
labor and anxiety. In vain he plied his pen
still more vigorously, and called around him
<q>Young Switzerland,</q> <q>Young Poland,</q>
<q>Young France,</q> and even <q>Young Europe</q>
at large; few responded to his ardent voice: the
Moderates, taking advantage of his discomfiture,
and appealing to the selfish prudence of all parties,
under the plausible argument of trusting in
moral force, turned, for the time, the tide of popular
opinion, and Mazzini, banished from France,
proscribed in Switzerland, and sentenced to death
in Italy, sought an asylum in England, where he
betook himself to the literary pursuits which had
formed the delight of his younger years, and to
the benevolent endeavor of improving the moral
state of the humbler classes of his countrymen
whom he found scattered about in London; particularly
of the poor organ boys, whom, sold by
venal parents to sordid masters, or lured from
their beautiful native scenes by fallacious representations,
he beheld lost in ignorance, enslaved
in vice, and suffering under every species of ill-treatment
and destitution. His founding an
evening school for these unfortunate outcasts
was a mortal offense in the eyes of the Roman
Catholic priests of every denomination&mdash;for a
<pb n='407'/><anchor id='Pg407'/>
layman to presume to instruct the ignorant, and
to hold out a hand to the helpless, was, in their
eyes, an unpardonable crime; and they strove
to vilify all his acts by connecting them with
covert designs of exciting anarchy and rebellion,
even in the land that had afforded him a refuge.
Nevertheless, the blameless tenor of his domestic
life, the magnanimity with which he bore his
disappointments and his trials, and the respect
in which he was held both for his talents and his
private character, which no calumny has ever
yet been able to impugn, would have insured him
as undisturbed a tranquillity as his anxiety for
his country, ever throbbing in his breast, could
have permitted him, had he not suddenly been
brought forth to public notice, by the English
government committing a flagrant act of injustice
toward him, which the more it endeavored to explain
and vindicate, the more odium it brought
upon itself&mdash;we allude to the opening of Mazzini's
letters at the General Post-Office in 1844,
by order of Lord Aberdeen and the <hi rend='italic'>Right Honorable</hi>
Sir James Graham, at the instigation of
Austrian jealousies and fears. The disgraceful
disclosures that were brought forward on that
occasion, will be fresh in the memory of many
of our readers.
</p>

<p>
The stirring events of Italy in 1847, naturally
turned all the thoughts and hopes of Mazzini
again to his country, and to the heightening, by
his presence, the effect of his doctrines, so long,
so ardently preached. But we must be brief;
we shall, therefore, pass over intervening steps,
and behold him in Rome&mdash;Rome proclaimed a
republic, Rome, at that moment, promising to
realize all the most glorious visions of his youth,
all the most thoughtfully-revolved theories of his
matured powers. He was elected on the 3d of
March, 1849, a deputy in the National Assembly,
by 8982 votes, being nearly one thousand ahead
of seven other candidates elected at the same
time, consequently at the top of the poll. On
the 31st of the same month, the dissolution of
the Executive Committee was decreed by the
Constituent Assembly, and the government of
the republic appointed to be intrusted to a Triumvirate,
<q>with unlimited powers.</q> The citizens
chosen for this important office were Carlo
Armellini, Giuseppe Mazzini, and Aurelio Saffi.
How wisely, temperately, and benevolently they
acquitted themselves of the task assigned them,
under the most complicated and trying circumstances
that ever legislators had to struggle with,
is known to all. The contrast of their conduct
with that of the Cardinal Triumvirate that succeeded
them, will live in the page of impartial
history, to the honor of the representatives of the
People, the disgrace of the representatives of the
Church.
</p>

<p>
It is needless to say that on the entrance of
the French into Rome, Mazzini, with his illustrious
colleagues, and many other distinguished
patriots, prepared to quit it. Again he found an
asylum in England, and again he betook himself
to the furtherance of the cause to which all his
faculties are devoted, to the emancipation of Italy.
<q>Twenty years,</q> he says, in the preliminary
note to his pamphlet recently published, entitled,
<q>The Charge of Terrorism in Rome, during the
Government of the Republic, refuted by Facts
and Documents</q>&mdash;<q>Twenty years, attended with
the usual amount of cares, woes, and deceptions,
have rolled around me since my first step in the
career. But my soul is as calm, my hands are
as pure, my faith is as unshaken, and bright with
hope for my awakened country, as in my young
years. With these gifts one may well endure
with a smile such little annoyances as may arise
from such writers as Mr. Cochrane, and Mr. Macfarlane.</q>
We should think so!
</p>

<p>
The first publication of Mazzini's that attracted
notice after his return to England, was his <q>Letter
to Messrs. De Tocqueville and De Falloux,
Ministers of France.</q> It excited universal interest.
The simple truth of its statements, which
no sophistry of the parties to whom it was addressed
could deny, the justice of its reproaches,
the manly sentiments it set forth, gained it the
sympathy of all persons of candor and liberal
views, and added a deeper tinge of shame on the
conduct, if not on the cheek, of the President,
by whose command the unjust, inconsistent, and
we may add barbarous attack upon Republican
Rome was made by Republican France.
</p>

<p>
From the moment that Mazzini set his foot
again upon English ground, as a refugee himself,
he turned his thoughts toward the sufferings of
his fellow-refugees, who still gathered around
him with unshaken devotedness and admiration.
By his exertions a committee was formed for
<q>The Italian Refugee Fund.</q> A touching address
was inserted by it in the leading journals,
wherein, after briefly setting forth the claims of
the Italian refugees upon the compassion of the
public, it proceeded: <q>It is not the only sorrow
of the Italian exiles that a noble cause is, for the
time being, lost. Proscribed and driven from
their watch over the beautiful country of their
birth and their affections, they seek a refuge here
in England, almost the only free land where they
may set foot. Hunted by their and the world's
enemies, forlorn and penniless, reduced to indigence,
bereft of almost all that makes life dear,
and bringing nothing from the wreck beyond the
Mediterranean Sea, but hope in the eternal might
of the principles they have upheld, the Committee
appeals in their behalf to Englishmen, for present
help, that they may not die of want, where they
have found a home.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mazzini's next care was, to found a <q>Society
of the Friends of Italy,</q> the objects of which are,
by public meetings, lectures, and the press, to
promote a correct appreciation of the Italian
question, and to aid the cause of the political and
religious liberty of the Italian people.
</p>

<p>
Of Mazzini's private character we believe there
is, among those who know him, but one opinion,
that he is the soul of honor, candid and compassionate
in his nature, and of almost woman's
tenderness in his friendships and attachments.
<q>I have had the honor,</q> says Thomas Carlyle,
<q>to know Mr. Mazzini for a series of years, and
<pb n='408'/><anchor id='Pg408'/>
whatever I may think of his practical insight and
skill in worldly affairs, I can with great freedom
testify to all men, that he, if I have ever seen
one such, is a man of genius and virtue; a man
of sterling virtue, humanity, and nobleness of
mind; one of those rare men, numerable, unfortunately,
but as units in this world, who are
worthy to be called Martyr souls.</q> Equally
honorable to him is the testimony of M. Lesseps,
the French Envoy to the Roman Republic, in the
Memoir of his Mission: <q>I fear the less making
known here the opinion I had of Mazzini, with
whom I was already in open strife, namely, that
during the whole series of our negotiations, I
had but to congratulate myself on his loyalty,
and the moderation of his character, which have
earned for him all my esteem.... Now that he
has fallen from power, and that he seeks, doubtless,
an asylum in a foreign land, I ought to
render homage to the nobleness of his sentiments,
to his conviction of his principles, to his high
capacity, and to his courage.</q>
</p>

<p>
The man who can win, from the depths of disappointment
and adversity, such a tribute from
one politically opposed to him, must have something
very extraordinary in himself&mdash;and such a
man is Mazzini. The faults alleged against him
are his enthusiasm, which leads him into rash
and precipitant measures, and his indomitable
will; or, we would rather call it, his unconquerable
tenacity of purpose, which is deaf to argument,
and spurns control; but it is only his political
character that is liable to these charges.
His virtues are all his own. When he was in
office at Rome he gave the whole of the salary
allotted to him to the hospitals, stating that his
own private income, though moderate, was sufficient
for his wants; and never does distress, in
any shape that he may have the power to alleviate,
appeal to him in vain. Had he not concentrated
all his abilities, all his energies upon the
one grand object of his life, the independence of
his country, he would have been as eminent in
the field of literature, as he is in that of politics.
He writes with equal facility and elegance in the
French and English languages as in his own,
and his beautiful memoir of Ugo Foscolo, his
essay upon Art in Italy, in his review of Grossi's
<q>Marco Visconti,</q> and many other admirable
contributions to periodical literature, sufficiently
prove that if the peculiar aspect of the times in
which he has lived had not impelled him into
public life, he would have found abundant resource
in more retired pursuits, for his own enjoyment,
and the benefit of society.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chewing The Buyo. A Sketch Of The Philippines.</head>

<p>
With a population of 3,000,000&mdash;part of
which has been for centuries the colony of
a European power&mdash;and producing many of the
tropical products of commerce, the Philippine
Isles remain almost as much a <foreign rend='italic'>terra incognita</foreign> as
China or Japan!
</p>

<p>
These islands offer a striking illustration of the
adage, that <q>knowledge is power.</q> They illustrate
the power of civilized man to subdue his
savage fellow. For ages have a few thousand
Spanish merchants been enabled to hold one-third
of the native inhabitants in direct and absolute
slavery; while more than another third has acknowledged
their sway by the payment of tribute.
The remaining fraction consists of wild tribes,
who, too remote from the seat of commerce and
power to make them an object of conquest, still
retain their barbarian independence.
</p>

<p>
But it has ever been the policy of Spain to shut
up her colonies from the intrusion of foreign enterprise&mdash;the
policy of all nations who retrograde,
or are hastening toward decay. This is the true
reason why so little has been written about the
Philippines and their inhabitants, many of whose
customs are both strange and interesting. Perhaps
not the least singular of these is that which
forms the subject of our sketch&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Comer el Buyo</hi>
(Chewing the Buyo).
</p>

<p>
The buyo is a thing composed of three ingredients&mdash;the
leaf of the buyo-palm, a sea-shell which
is a species of periwinkle, and a root similar in
properties to the <foreign rend='italic'>betel</foreign> of India. It is prepared
thus: the leaves of the palm, from which it has
its name, are collected at a certain season, cut
into parallelograms, and spread upon a board or
table with the inner cuticle removed. Upon this
the powdered root and the shell, also pulverized,
are spread in a somewhat thick layer. The shell
of itself is a strong alkali, and forms a chief ingredient
in the mixture. After having been exposed
for some time to the sun, the buyo-leaf is
rolled inwardly, so as to inclose the other substances,
and is thus formed into a regular cartridge,
somewhat resembling a cheroot. Thus prepared,
the buyo is ready for use&mdash;that is, to be eaten.
</p>

<p>
In order that it may be carried conveniently in
the pocket, it is packed in small cases formed out
of the leaves of another species of the palm-tree.
Each of these cases contains a dozen cartridges
of the buyo.
</p>

<p>
Buyo-eating is a habit which must be cultivated
before it becomes agreeable. To the stranger,
the taste of the buyo is about as pleasant as
tobacco to him who chews it for the first time;
and although it is not followed by the terrible
sickness that accompanies the latter operation, it
is sure to excoriate the tongue of the rash tyro,
and leave his mouth and throat almost skinless.
Having once undergone this fearful matriculation,
he feels ever afterward a craving to return to the
indulgence, and the appetite is soon confirmed.
</p>

<p>
In Manilla every one smokes, every one chews
buyo&mdash;man, woman, and child, Indian or Spaniard.
Strangers who arrive there, though repudiating
the habit for awhile, soon take to it, and become
the most confirmed buyo-eaters in the place.
Two acquaintances meet upon the <foreign rend='italic'>paseo</foreign>, and stop
to exchange their salutations. One pulls out his
<foreign rend='italic'>cigarrero</foreign>, and says: <q>Quiere a fumar?</q> (<q>Will
you smoke?</q>) The other draws forth the ever-ready
buyo-case, and with equal politeness offers
a roll of the buyos. The commodities are exchanged,
each helping himself to a cartridge and
a cigarrito. A flint and steel are speedily produced,
<pb n='409'/><anchor id='Pg409'/>
the cigars are lit, and each takes a bite of
buyo, while the conversation is all the while proceeding.
Thus three distinct operations are performed
by the same individual at the same time&mdash;eating,
smoking, and talking! The juice arising
from the buyo in eating is of a strong red color,
resembling blood. This circumstance reminds us
of an anecdote which is, I believe, well authenticated,
but at least is universally believed by the
people of Manilla. Some years ago a ship from
Spain arrived in the port of Manilla. Among the
passengers was a young doctor from Madrid, who
had gone out to the Philippines with the design
of settling in the colony, and pushing his fortune
by means of his profession. On the morning after
he had landed, our doctor sallied forth for a walk
on the paseo. He had not proceeded far when
his attention was attracted to a young girl, a
native, who was walking a few paces ahead of
him. He observed that every now and then the
girl stooped her head toward the pavement, which
was straightway spotted with blood! Alarmed
on the girl's account, our doctor walked rapidly
after her, observing that she still continued to
expectorate blood at intervals as she went. Before
he could come up with her, the girl had
reached her home&mdash;a humble cottage in the
suburbs&mdash;into which she entered. The doctor
followed close upon her heels; and summoning
her father and mother, directed them to send immediately
for the priest, as their daughter had
not many hours to live.
</p>

<p>
The distracted parents, having learned the
profession of their visitor, immediately acceded
to his request. The child was put to bed in extreme
affright, having been told what was about
to befall her. The nearest <foreign rend='italic'>padré</foreign> was brought,
and every thing was arranged to smooth the
journey of her soul through the passes of purgatory.
The doctor plied his skill to the utmost;
but in vain. In less than twenty-four hours the
girl was dead!
</p>

<p>
As up to that time the young Indian had always
enjoyed excellent health, the doctor's prognostication
was regarded as an evidence of great
and mysterious skill. The fame of it soon spread
through Manilla, and in a few hours the newly-arrived
physician was beleaguered with patients,
and in a fair way of accumulating a fortune. In
the midst of all this some one had the curiosity
to ask the doctor how he could possibly have
predicted the death of the girl, seeing that she
had been in perfect health a few hours before.
<q>Predict it!</q> replied the doctor&mdash;<q>why, sir, I
saw her spit blood enough to have killed her half
a dozen times.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Blood! How did you know it was blood?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>How? From the color. How else!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But every one spits red in Manilla!</q>
</p>

<p>
The doctor, who had already observed this fact,
and was laboring under some uneasiness in regard
to it, refused to make any further concessions
at the time; but he had said enough to
elucidate the mystery. The thing soon spread
throughout the city; and it became clear to every
one that what the new <foreign rend='italic'>medico</foreign> had taken for
blood, was nothing else than the red juice of the
buyo, and that the poor girl had died from the
fear of death caused by his prediction!
</p>

<p>
His patients now fled from him as speedily as
they had congregated; and to avoid the ridicule
that awaited him, as well as the indignation of
the friends of the deceased girl, our doctor was
fain to escape from Manilla, and return to Spain
in the same ship that had brought him out.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Sketch Of Suwarow.</head>

<p>
The most able military commander that Russia
has produced was in person miserably
thin, and five feet one inch in height. A large
mouth, pug nose, eyes commonly half shut, a few
gray side locks, brought over the top of his bald
crown, and a small unpowdered queue, the whole
surmounted by a three-cornered felt hat ornamented
with green fringe, composed the <q>head
and front</q> of Field-marshal Suwarow; but his
eyes, when open, were piercing, and in battle they
were said to be terrifically expressive. When any
thing said or done displeased him, a wavy play
of his deeply-wrinkled forehead betrayed, or rather
expressed, his disapproval. He had a philosophical
contempt for dress, and might often be seen
drilling his men in his shirt sleeves. It was only
during the severest weather that he wore cloth
his outer garments being usually of white serge
turned up with green. These were the most
indifferently made, as were his large, coarsely
greased slouching boots; one of which he very
commonly dispensed with, leaving his kneeband
unbuttoned, and his stocking about his heel. A
huge sabre and a single order completed his ordinary
costume; but on grand occasions his field-marshal's
uniform was covered with badges, and
he was fond of telling where and how he had won
them. He often arose at midnight, and welcomed
the first soldier he saw moving with a piercing
imitation of the crowing of a cock, in compliment
to his early rising. It is said that in the first
Polish war, knowing a spy was in the camp, he
issued orders for an attack at cock-crow, and the
enemy expecting it in the morning, were cut to
pieces at nine at night&mdash;Suwarow having turned
out the troops an hour before by his well-known
cry. The evening before the storm of Ismail, he
informed his columns&mdash;<q>To-morrow morning, an
hour before daybreak, I mean to get up. I shall
then dress and wash myself, then say my prayers,
and then give one good cock-crow, and capture
Ismail.</q> When Ségur asked him if he never
took off his clothes at night, he replied, <q>No!
when I get lazy, and want to have a comfortable
sleep, I generally take off one spur.</q> Buckets
of cold water were thrown over him before he
dressed, and his table was served at seven or eight
o'clock with sandwiches and various messes which
Duboscage describes as <q><foreign rend='italic'>des ragouts Kosaks
detestables</foreign>;</q>
to which men paid <q>the mouth honor,
which they would fain deny, but dare not,</q> lest
Suwarow should consider them effeminate. He
had been very sickly in his youth, but by spare diet
and cold bathing had strengthened and hardened
himself into first-rate condition.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='410'/><anchor id='Pg410'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Monthly Record of Current Events.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>United States.</head>

<p>
Public attention, during the month, has been
mainly fixed upon Kossuth, in his addresses to
the various portions of the people of the United
States with whom he is brought in contact. After
the banquet given to him, December 16th, by the
New York Press, noticed in our last Record, Kossuth
remained in New York until Tuesday, the 23d.
The Bar of New York gave him a public reception
and banquet on the 18th, at which he made a speech
devoted mainly to the position, that the intervention
of Russia in the affairs of Hungary was a gross violation
of the law of nations, deserving the name of
piracy; and that the United States was bound alike
in interest and in duty, to protest against it. He
conceded fully that if such a protest should be made,
and treated with contempt, the United States would
be bound in honor to enforce it by war. At the
same time he declared his conviction that there was
not the slightest danger of war, and entered into
some historical details to show that Russia would
never interfere in Hungarian affairs, until she was
assured that England and the United States would
not resist her.&mdash;At the dinner, speeches were made
by several prominent members of the bar. Judge
Duer, after a long and very eloquent eulogy of Kossuth
and his cause, was going on to reply to his argument
in favor of the interference of this country
for the protection of international law, but the company
refused to allow him to proceed.&mdash;On the 20th,
in the afternoon, Kossuth addressed a large company
of ladies assembled to meet him, in a speech of
exquisite beauty and touching eloquence. He also
delivered an address at the church of the Rev. H.
W. Beecher, in Brooklyn, in which he spoke of the
question of religious liberty, as it is involved in the
Hungarian struggle.&mdash;During his stay in New York
he was waited on by a great number of deputations
from different sections of the country, and from different
classes of the community, who all made formal
addresses to him which were answered with
wonderful pertinence and tact.
</p>

<p>
On the 23d he left for Philadelphia, and had a
public reception the next day in the old Hall where
independence was declared in 1776. His speech
was merely one of thanks. He was entertained at
a public dinner in the evening, and at another on the
evening of Friday, the 26th. His speech on the latter
occasion was devoted mainly to the usurpation
of Louis Napoleon, which he regarded as having
been dictated by the absolute powers of Europe, and
as certain to end in his destruction. The struggle
in Europe between the principles of freedom and
despotism would only be hastened by this act, and
he appealed earnestly to the United States for a decision,
as to whether they would protest against
Russian intervention in Hungarian affairs.
</p>

<p>
On the 27th he went to Baltimore, where he was
most enthusiastically received. In the evening he
made a speech of an hour and a half to the citizens
at the hall of the Maryland Institute, in which he
set forth the connection between Hungary and the
rest of Europe, and the reasons why the United
States could not remain indifferent to struggles for
liberty in any part of the world.
</p>

<p>
On Tuesday, the 30th, he went to Washington,
and was received at the cars by the Senate Committee.
Very soon after his arrival he was waited
upon by Mr. Webster, and a great number of other
distinguished persons. He also received a deputation
from the Jackson Democratic Association, and
one from the clergy, making to the addresses of both
pertinent replies. On Wednesday, the 31st, he was
received by President Fillmore at the Executive
Mansion. In a brief and admirable address he expressed
his fervent thanks for the interest taken by
the United States in his liberation from captivity
and in the cause he represented, and for the action
of the President himself in connection with it. He
referred, with warm satisfaction to the declaration
in the President's Message, that the people of this
country could not remain indifferent when the strong
arm of a foreign power is invoked to stifle public
sentiment and to repress the spirit of freedom in
any country. The President replied very briefly,
saying that the policy of this country had been long
settled, and that his own sentiments had been freely
expressed in his Message; and his language upon
those points would be the same in speaking to foreign
nations as to our own&mdash;On Wednesday, the
7th, he was formally invited into both Houses of
Congress. In the evening he was present at a public
dinner given to him by a large number of members
of Congress, and other distinguished persons.
His speech on that occasion was a terse and most
eloquent sketch of the position of his country&mdash;of its
relation to the principles of liberty, and of the influence
upon Europe of the history and example of the
United States. To give that influence its full weight,
it was necessary that the nations of Europe should
be left free to manage their own concerns.&mdash;Mr.
Webster, on this occasion, also made a long and
eloquent speech, expressing the highest appreciation
of Kossuth, his country and his cause, and declaring
his belief that Hungary was admirably fitted for self-government,
and his wish for the speedy establishment
of her independence. He said he would not
enter upon any discussion of the principles involved
in this question as it is now presented, because he
had already and repeatedly expressed his views in
regard to them. Referring to his speech upon the
Greek Revolution in 1823, and to his letter to the
Austrian Chargé, M. Hulsemann, he said he was prepared
to repeat them word for word and to stand by
every thing he had said on those occasions. General
Cass also made an eloquent speech avowing his full
and most cordial assent to the doctrine that the United
States ought to interfere to prevent Russian intervention
against the independence of Hungary. Senator
Douglass also expressed his concurrence in
these views, but said he would not go for joining
England in any such protest until she would do
justice to Ireland.
</p>

<p>
Kossuth left Washington on the 12th of January,
for Annapolis, where he remained when this Record
was closed.
</p>

<p>
In Congress no public business of importance had
been transacted. Both Houses spent several days
in debating the subject of Kossuth's reception.
</p>

<p>
The Legislature of New York met at Albany on
Tuesday, the 6th of January. The Assembly was
organized by electing J. C. Heartt, Speaker, and R.
W. Sherman, Clerk&mdash;both Whigs. In the Senate,
Ira P. Barnes, Democrat, was elected clerk. The
Message of Governor Hunt was sent in on the same
day. He states the aggregate debt of the State at
$21,690,802, which the sinking funds provided will
pay off in seventeen years. The aggregate taxable
property of the State is set down at $1100,000,000.
The canal revenues of the last year were $3,722,163:
<pb n='411'/><anchor id='Pg411'/>
after meeting all constitutional obligations there
remained of this, the sum of $964,432 applicable to
the completion of the Canals. The funds devoted
to school purposes amount to $6,612,850. The number
of children taught during the year was 726,291
and the amount expended in teachers' wages, was
$1,432,696. The whole number of insane persons
in the state is 2506; convicts in the State prisons,
1714. Referring to national topics, the Message regrets
the feelings of hostility sometimes evinced between
different sections&mdash;saying that <q>the Constitution
having wisely left the States free to regulate
their domestic affairs, the dissimilarity in their local
institutions furnishes no just ground for mutual complaints
and reproaches.</q> He trusts that the spirit of
disunion and that of fanaticism will both exhaust
themselves without endangering the stability of our
national institutions. Considering at some length
the condition and prospects of the African race in
this country, he warmly commends to favor the scheme
of colonization, and the societies formed to carry it
out.
</p>

<p>
The Legislature of Pennsylvania organized at
Harrisburgh, on the 6th. In the House, John S.
Rhey, Democrat, was chosen Speaker, receiving 54
out of 88 votes. In the Senate, Mr. Muhlenberg,
Democrat, was elected. The Message of Governor
Johnston states that the Commonwealth was never
in a more prosperous condition. The amount of the
public debt is $40,114,236, having been reduced over
$700,000 during the last three years, without retarding
any of the interests, or useful plans of the State.
</p>

<p>
Henry Clay, in a letter dated Dec. 17, and addressed
to the General Assembly of Kentucky, resigns his
seat in the Senate of the United States, the resignation
to take effect from the first Monday in September,
1852, He states that he accepted the office only
to aid in settling those questions which threatened
to disturb the peace of the country; and that object
having been accomplished, he wishes to enable the
present Assembly to choose his successor. In the
Kentucky Legislature, Archibald Dixon, (Whig) was
elected Senator, on the 30th of December, to fill the
vacancy thus created.
</p>

<p>
The Library of Congress, kept in the Capitol at
Washington, was nearly destroyed by fire on the 24th
December. About 35,000 volumes were burned, 20,000
being saved. A great number of very valuable paintings,
medals, &amp;c. &amp;c., were also destroyed. The cost
of the library has not been far from $200,000.
</p>

<p>
Hon. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Joel R. Poinsett</hi>, long known as a prominent
public man in the United States, died at his
residence in Statesburg, S.C., December 12, aged
73. He was born in South Carolina, educated under
the late President Dwight at Greenfield, Conn., and
then sent abroad where he spent five years in study
and travel. Returning home he studied law, but
soon repaired again to Europe, where he visited Russia,
and became a special favorite with the Emperor
Alexander, who constantly asked him questions about
the institutions of the United States, and who once
said to him, <q>If I were not an Emperor, I would be
a Republican.</q> In 1808, he was sent by President
Madison on public business to South America. On
his return, during the war, he was taken prisoner.
In 1821 he was elected to Congress from the Charleston
district. In 1822 he was sent to Mexico by President
Monroe, to obtain information concerning the
government under Iturbide, in which he was very
successful. He was subsequently appointed Minister
to Mexico, by Mr. Adams, and remained there
until 1829. Returning home he served in the State
Senate and in 1836 entered President Van Buren's
cabinet as Secretary of War. After retiring from
that post, the remainder of his life was spent in literary
pursuits.
</p>

<p>
Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Moses Stuart</hi>, for many years connected
with Andover Theological Seminary, and widely
known for Biblical learning, died January 4th, aged
71. He was born at Wilton, Connecticut, March
26, 1780, and, after graduating at Yale College in
1799, acted as tutor in that institution for two or
three years. In 1806, he was settled as a pastor in
New Haven, and was elected Professor of Sacred
Literature in Andover Theological Seminary in 1810&mdash;a
post which he filled ably and acceptably until his
death. He has left voluminous and valuable works.
</p>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>California</hi> we have intelligence to Dec.
15th. New and extensive deposits of gold have
been found near Auburn, in the northern, and at
Mariposa, in the southern mines; the lack of rain
had caused the yield of gold from them to be small.
The aggregate product of all the mines during November
was estimated at twenty per cent. less than
during the previous month. Several projects of railroads
through different sections of the State were
under discussion, and the route between San Francisco
and San José was being surveyed. The agricultural
resources of the State continued to be developed
with steady progress. Farming operations
had already commenced. Several murders had been
perpetrated in various sections. As an evidence of
the prosperity of San Francisco, it is stated that
seven large steamers were to leave that port, within
a week, for different ports on the Pacific and Australia.
The Indians have again been committing
frightful ravages among the American settlements
on the Colorado. The various tribes upon the southeastern
border, known to be disaffected, have given
unmistakable signs of revolt. Juan Antonio, who
had been prominent as an Indian leader, had been
forming a league of several tribes, with intent to
attack the towns of San Diego, Los Angeles, and
Santa Barbara. Three skirmishes had also taken
place with the Yumas, on the Colorado, in which
several Americans were killed. Great uneasiness
prevailed among the inhabitants of the menaced districts.
The latest advices represent the danger as
less menacing than was feared. Gen. Conde, with 80
troops of the Mexican Boundary Commission, was
at Tuson on the 20th Oct., and would leave next
day for the Gila.
</p>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>Oregon</hi>, our news is to Dec. 6, and is encouraging.
The difficulties with the Coquille Indians,
which had caused the loss of many lives, had
been settled. Coal had been found in considerable
quantities at Port Orford. The U. S. Coast Survey
party were engaged in determining the latitude and
longitude of that point, and had completed a map of
the harbor. The rainy season had commenced, and
the rivers were rising.
</p>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>Utah</hi> we have the official report made by
the Judges to the President of the United States,
concerning the condition of the Territory. They
state that they were compelled to leave by the hostile
and seditious sentiments of the Governor, Brigham
Young; and they give a detailed statement of
his proceedings. They represent polygamy as common
there, and the courts as powerless to punish
any offenses. The delegate from that Territory in
Congress complains of the report, as calculated to
do injustice to the inhabitants. He demands an investigation
into the charges.
</p>

<p>
From the <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sandwich Islands</hi> we have news that
the Expedition from California, which was noticed
in our last record as being suspected of questionable
<pb n='412'/><anchor id='Pg412'/>
designs, proves to be entirety innocent. It is said
that they were invited over by the King, who desired
to have a body of Americans there, in case his
proposal for annexation to the United States should
be accepted. They had arrived at Honolulu, and
engaged peaceably in various pursuits. Some of
the English residents evinced uneasiness at their
arrival. A resolution had been adopted in Parliament,
declaring that the demands of France were
so unjust as to warrant the King, in case of necessity,
in putting the Islands under the protection of
some friendly power, and pledging the support of
the nation to whatever he might think it proper to
do.
</p>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mexico</hi> we have intelligence to the 20th of
December. A riot occurred, in consequence of rumored
misconduct of the French Consul, in importing
goods without paying the duties upon them.
Several persons were killed. News had been received
of the success of the government troops who
were sent to oppose Caravajal's second attempt at
insurrection in the northern departments. Congress
closed its extra session on the 14th of December;
the President, in his speech, said he should
have been very glad to congratulate them upon the
realization of important reforms, but he could not do
so. No new sources of unhappiness, however, had
arisen, and financial matters had been put upon such
a basis, that the next Congress could solve existing
difficulties. Harmony prevailed between the State
and the Central Governments; the army had preserved
the nationality of the country, when it was
threatened on the frontier. The foreign relations
of the republic were declared to be entirely satisfactory.
Preparations had already been made for
electing members of a new Congress, Subsequent
accounts received from the northern departments,
give the details of the success of the Government
troops there. Caravajal was defeated, with a loss
of sixty or seventy;&mdash;but he had not been apprehended,
and at the latest advices, was expecting
reinforcements.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>South America.</head>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>South America</hi> the news is not very decisive.
<hi rend='italic'>Uraguay</hi>, however, is completely emancipated
from the control of Rosas. Oribe's army is disbanded,
his officers have retired to Buenos Ayres, and he
himself has retired to private life. Urquiza had left
the Montevidean territory with part of his troops,
on board Brazilian transports, for Entre Rios, from
which he intended to march to Buenos Ayres. The
Brazilian army remained in Uraguay, to support the
actual government.&mdash;&mdash;In <hi rend='italic'>Chili</hi>, according to latest
advices, the revolution noticed some time since, was
evidently extending itself more and more. By accounts
received at Lima, December 1, Gen. Cruz, the
leader of the insurgents, was at Chillan, with 3000
men, having had several engagements with the government
troops under Ex-President Bulnes. Col.
Carrera had been defeated by the government forces.
At Valparaiso a riot occurred on the 28th of November.
The mob attacked the barracks, procured arms,
and fortified themselves in the Square. They were
attacked by the troops under Governor-General Blanco,
and dispersed after half an hour's engagement, in
which 80 were killed. The agitation had subsided.&mdash;&mdash;In
<hi rend='italic'>Bolivia</hi> every thing was
quiet.&mdash;&mdash;In <hi rend='italic'>New
Grenada</hi> a law has been passed, declaring the whole
slave population to be free after January 1, 1852.
General Herrara had returned from his visit to the
southern provinces, where he had put down all the
attempts at insurrection.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Europe.</head>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>Great Britain</hi> the political news is important.
On Monday, the 22d of December, Lord <hi rend='smallcaps'>Palmerston</hi>
resigned his position as Foreign Secretary
and ceased to be a member of the Cabinet. Earl
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Granville</hi> was appointed his successor. The cause
of this rupture has not been officially announced.
The leading papers, however, ascribe it to a difference
of opinion, which had risen to decided hostility,
between Lord Palmerston and his colleagues, in regard
to foreign affairs. The encouragement which
the Foreign Secretary gave to <hi rend='smallcaps'>Kossuth</hi> is mentioned
among the grounds of difference: but the <hi rend='italic'>Times</hi>,
which is likely to be well-informed, asserts, that the
subject of distinct and decisive difference was the
French usurpation. It says that Lord Palmerston
approved decidedly of the step taken by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Louis Napoleon</hi>;
whereas, the rest of the Cabinet were inclined
to censure it. The same authority says that
several of the European governments have warmly
remonstrated with England, for allowing political refugees
to make that country the scene of plots against
the peace of the countries they had left. It adds,
however, that this was not among the causes of dissension,&mdash;Lord
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Granville</hi> is thirty-seven years
old, and has been attached to the English legation in
Paris. It will be remembered that he was Chairman
of the Council of the Great Exhibition last year. He
is a man of considerable ability and diplomatic skill.
It is not supposed, however, that he will make his
predecessor's place good as a debater in the House
of Commons.
</p>

<p>
Of other news from Great Britain, there is not
much. A large company of London merchants waited
upon Lord <hi rend='smallcaps'>John Russell</hi> on the 9th, to complain
of gross mismanagement and inefficiency, on the part
of the Commissioners of Customs, and asking the appointment
of a Select Committee of Investigation.
The Minister replied to many of the complaints, declaring
them to be unjust, and declined to say that he
would move for a Committee. The whole matter,
however, should receive his attention.
</p>

<p>
A public dinner was given at Manchester, on the
9th, to Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>R. J. Walker</hi>, formerly American Secretary
of the Treasury. In his speech on the occasion,
Mr. W. elaborately argued the question of Free
Trade, saying that he was in favor of a still farther
reduction of the American duties, and calling upon
the English to aid them by reducing the duties on
tobacco and other imports of American growth. Referring
to recent events in France, he avowed his apprehension
that a man who had proved himself a
traitor, an insurgent, and a military usurper, would
not rest content at home, but that England herself
was in danger from the progress of despotism upon
the Continent. Whenever such a struggle for freedom
should be waged in England, he promised them
the support of the United States.
</p>

<p>
In <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ireland</hi> a good deal of interest has been excited
by the return of emigrants from America. In
many cases they were returning for their families&mdash;in
others, from disappointment and unfitness for work
in the United States.&mdash;&mdash;A Mr. Bateson, manager of
the great estates of Lord Templeton, in the county
of Monoghan, was shot at, and then beaten with
bludgeons, so that he died, by three men in the street;
the act was in revenge for some evictions he had
made against dishonest tenants.
</p>

<p>
In <hi rend='smallcaps'>Scotland</hi> a very large meeting was held in
Edinburgh on the 9th, to protest against the grant to
Maynooth College. In the course of the debates it
was stated that 540 petitions, with 307,278 names,
had been sent in against the grant. A resolution was
<pb n='413'/><anchor id='Pg413'/>
adopted, promising to use every possible effort to
<q>procure the passage of a bill for the entire repeal
of said grant</q> at the next session of Parliament.
</p>

<p>
The events of the month in France have been of
transcendent interest. The Constitution has been
abolished, the National Assembly dissolved, martial
law proclaimed, and the Republic transformed into
a Monarchy, elective in name but absolute in fact.
</p>

<p>
This change was effected by violence on the morning
of Tuesday, December 2d. Our Record of last
month noticed the dissensions between the President
and the Assembly, and the refusal of the latter to
abolish the law restricting suffrage, and the failure
of its attempt to obtain command over the army. A
law was also pending authorizing the impeachment
of the President in case he should seek a re-election
in violation of the provisions of the Constitution.
During the night of Monday the 1st, preparations
were made by the President for destroying all authority
but his own. He wrote letters to his Ministers
announcing to them that he had made up his mind
to resist the attempt of his enemies to sacrifice him,
and that, as he did not wish them to be compromised
by his acts, they had better resign. The hint of course
was taken, and they sent in letters of resignation at
once. The principal streets of Paris were occupied
by strong bodies of troops at about 5 o'clock on Tuesday
morning; and before that hour all the leading
representatives and military men whom Louis Napoleon
knew to be opposed to his designs, were arrested
and committed to prison. Detachments of the police,
accompanied by portions of the guard, visited their
houses, and arrested Generals Cavaignac, Changarnier,
De Lamoricière, Bedeau, and Leflo, Colonel
Charras, MM. Thiers, Lagrange, Valentine, Panat,
Michel (de Bourges), Beaune, Greppo, Miot, Nadaud,
Roger (du Nord), and Baze. They were immediately
transferred to the Chateau of Vincennes, and subsequently
removed to Ham; with the exception of M.
Thiers, who was taken to the prison of Mazas. General
Changarnier was arrested at his own house at 4
o'clock in the morning. Several other representatives
were with him at the time, and were also taken into
custody. Gen. C. attempted to harangue the troops
who were sent to arrest him, but they refused to
listen to him. At the same time that the above arrests
were made, commissaries of police were dispatched
to the offices of the public journals to suspend
some, and regulate the course of others. In the morning
the walls of Paris were found to be placarded
with a decree, in the following terms: <q>In the name
of the French people, the President of the Republic
decrees: 1. The National Assembly is dissolved.
2. Universal suffrage is re-established; the law of
the 31st May is repealed. 3. The French people are
convoked in their communes from the 14th to the
21st December. 4. The state of siege is decreed in
the whole of the first military division. 5. The
Council of State is dissolved. 6. The Minister of
the Interior is charged with the execution of this
decree.&mdash;Louis Napoleon Bonaparte.</q> At a later
hour an appeal to the people was issued by the
President, and posted upon the walls. It declared
that he had dissolved the Assembly, which was attacking
his power, and compromising the peace of
France. He had faithfully observed the Constitution,
but it was his duty to baffle the perfidious plans
of those who were seeking to overturn the Republic.
He accordingly appealed to the people. He would
not consent longer to hold a power ineffective for
good: if they wished him to continue in his post,
they must give him the means of fulfilling his mission,
which was to close the era of revolutions. He
submitted to them the basis of a new Constitution,
providing: 1. A responsible head named for ten years.
2. Ministers dependent on the Executive power alone.
3. A Council of State, to propose laws and discuss
them. 4. A legislative body discussing and voting
laws, named by universal suffrage. 5. A second assembly,
formed of all the illustrious of the country.
He asked them to vote for or against him on this
basis. If he did not obtain a majority, he would give
up power. A proclamation to the army was issued
in a similar manner. He told the soldiers that he
counted on them to cause to be respected the sovereignty
of the nation, of which he was the legitimate
representative. He reminded them of the insults
that had been heaped upon them, and called upon
them to vote as citizens, but as soldiers to obey.
He was alone responsible: it was for them to remain
immovable within the rules of discipline.
</p>

<p>
As soon as these events were generally known, a
portion of the members of the Assembly, two hundred
in number, assembled at the residence of M. Daru,
one of the Vice Presidents of the Assembly. They
there decided to go to their usual place of meeting,
but they were refused admission by an armed guard.
Returning to M. Daru's house, they were about commencing
a session, when a message arrived from
Gen. Lauriston, inviting them to the Mairie of the
10th arrondissement, and saying that he was prepared
to defend them against all violence. They accordingly
repaired thither, organized, and after due deliberation
declared the conduct of Louis Napoleon to be
illegal, and in violation of the Constitution, and decreed
his deposition, in accordance with Art. 68 of
that instrument. They also by a decree freed the
officers of the army and navy, and all public functionaries,
from their oaths of obedience to him, and
convoked the High Court of Justice to judge him
and his Ministers. The Court did attempt to meet
during the day, but was dispersed. The decree
was signed by all the members of Assembly present.
After this had been done the building was found to
be surrounded by troops, to whom M. Berryer announced
the deposition of the President and the appointment
of General Oudinot, commander-in-chief
of all the troops of Paris. The announcement was
coldly received, and officers and troops immediately
entered the room and dispersed the Assembly. About
150 of the members were afterward arrested and
committed to prison for attempting to meet in some
other place; after a day's confinement they were released.
Meantime, the most perfect quiet prevailed
throughout Paris. No attempt at resistance was
made, and the decrees were read and commented on
with apparent indifference. The streets and public
places were crowded with troops. Dispatches were
sent to the departments and were answered by full
assurances of assent.
</p>

<p>
On Wednesday morning was published a list of
one hundred and twenty persons appointed by the
President as a Consultative Commission, selected
because Louis Napoleon <q>wished to surround himself
with men who enjoy, by a just title, the esteem
and confidence of the country.</q> Of these over eighty
refused to serve. During the same morning, indications
of discontent began to be apparent. At about
10 o'clock, M. Baudin, one of the representatives of
the people, made his appearance on horseback, in
official dress and with a drawn sword, in the Rue St.
Antoine. He was followed by several others, and
strove to arouse the people to resistance. Considerable
groups collected, and a fragile barricade was
erected. Troops soon came up from opposite directions
<pb n='414'/><anchor id='Pg414'/>
and hemmed them in. The groups were soon
dispersed, and M. Baudin, and two other representatives
were killed on the spot. Great numbers of
troops continued to arrive, and the whole section was
speedily occupied by them. On Thursday morning,
appearances of insurrection began to be serious. Barricades
were erected in several streets. At 12 o'clock
the Boulevards were swept by troops, artillery was
brought up, and wherever groups of people were seen
they were fired upon. It is now known that police
officers encouraged the building of barricades in order
to give the troops a chance to attack the people.
Buildings were battered with cannon, and scores of
respectable people were killed at their windows.
Throughout the day the troops behaved in the most
brutal manner, bayoneting, shooting, and riding over
every body within reach. Great numbers of innocent
persons were killed in this manner. It would
be impossible to give within our limits a tithe of the
interesting incidents of the day, illustrating the
spirit that prevailed. It is pretty clearly ascertained
that the object of the government was to strike terror
into all classes, and that for this purpose the troops
had been instructed to show no quarter, but to kill
every body that threatened resistance. Many of the
soldiers were also intoxicated. 'Order' was in this
manner completely restored by evening. But over
two thousand people were killed.
</p>

<p>
From the departments, meantime, came news of
resistance. In the frontier districts of the southeast
particularly&mdash;the whole valley of the Rhone, in fact
the whole region from Joigny to Lyons, including
several departments, the rural population rose in
great strength against the usurpation. There was
very hard fighting in the Nievre, in the Herault, and
in the frontier districts of the Sardinian and Swiss
Alps: and in many places the contest was distinguished
by sad atrocities. In the course of two or
three days, however, all resistance was quelled.
</p>

<p>
Preparations were made for the election. The
army voted first, and of course its vote was nearly
unanimous in favor of Louis Napoleon. The popular
election was to take place on Saturday and Sunday,
the 20th and 21st of December. The simple question
submitted was, whether Louis Napoleon should remain
at the head of the state ten years, or not. No
other candidate was allowed to be named. Louis
Napoleon directed the Pantheon to be restored to its
original use as a church, and thereby, as well as by
other measures, secured the support of the Catholics.
Count Montalembert published a long letter, urging
all Catholics throughout France to vote in his favor.
The election was conducted quietly&mdash;the government
discouraging as much as possible the printing and
distributing of negative votes. The returns have
been received from 68 out of the 86 departments, and
these give, in round numbers, 5,400,000 <emph>yes</emph>, and
600,000 <emph>no</emph>. His majority will probably be nearly
7,000,000, which is more than he obtained in 1848.
</p>

<p>
The London papers state that a correspondence
had passed between the governments of England and
France upon the subject of Louis Napoleon's usurpation,
in which the former urged a full and explicit
declaration of the President's intentions, and views,
as necessary to satisfy the English people in regard
to what had already taken place. The replies are
said to have been evasive and unsatisfactory. It is
stated, also, that Louis Napoleon had directed a circular
letter to be prepared, addressed to the various
governments of Europe, assuring them of his pacific
disposition, and saying that the step he had taken
was necessary for the protection of France against
the enemies of order.
</p>

<p>
Marshal Soult died on the 20th of December at his
chateau of Soult-berg. He was born March 29,1769&mdash;the
same year with Napoleon, the Duke of Wellington,
Cuvier, Chateaubriand, and Walter Scott,
and was 82 years old at the time of his death. He
entered the army in 1785, and was subsequently attached
to the staff of Gen. Lefebvre. He took part
in all the campaigns of Germany until 1799, when he
followed Massena into Switzerland and thence to
Genoa, where he was wounded and taken prisoner.
Set at liberty after the battle of Marengo, he returned
to France and became one of the four colonels of the
guard of the Consuls. When the empire was proclaimed
in 1804 he was made Marshal of France.
He subsequently commanded the army in Spain, and
in 1813 was made Commander-in-Chief of the Imperial
Guard. When Napoleon first landed from
Elba he issued a proclamation against him, but soon
after became one of his warmest adherents. He
was afterward the firm supporter of Louis Philippe,
as Minister of War and President of the Council,
from which he retired in 1847 to private life. He
was the last representative of the imperial era of
France.
</p>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>Austria</hi> the only news is of new arrests
and new restrictions. A number of persons in Hungary,
including the mother and the sisters of Kossuth,
had been arrested merely on suspicion at Pesth: and
a subsequent account announces the death of his
mother. The prisoners were removed to Vienna.
The military governor of Vienna has forbidden the
papers hereafter to publish the names of any persons
that may be arrested, or to mention the fact of their
arrest, on the ground that it <q>interferes with judicial
proceedings.</q> The government, it is said, has notified
the English government, that measures will be
taken to prevent Englishmen from traveling in Austria,
if Austrian refugees continue to be received
and fêted in England.&mdash;The financial embarrassments
of the government still continue.&mdash;It is stated that
Prince Schwarzenberg has avowed the intention of
the Austrian government to sustain Louis Napoleon
in the course he has taken&mdash;not that his legitimate
right to the position he holds is conceded, but because
he is acting on the side of order.
</p>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>Spain</hi> we have intelligence that the Queen
has pardoned all the American prisoners proceeding
from the last expedition against Cuba, whether in
Spain fulfilling their sentence or still in Cuba. The
decree announcing this was dated Dec. 9, and alleged
the satisfactory conduct and assurances of the American
government as the ground of this clemency.&mdash;The
Spanish Minister, Don Calderon de la Barca,
had been honored with the Grand Cross of Charles II.
as a reward for his conduct, and Señor Laborde, the
Spanish Consul at New Orleans, was to resume his
post.&mdash;Immediately after receiving news of the
<foreign rend='italic'>coup-d'état</foreign>
in Paris, the Spanish Congress was indefinitely
prorogued by the royal authority. A princess was
born on the 20th of December.
</p>

<p>
In <hi rend='smallcaps'>Turkey</hi> the question of Russian predominance
has again been raised, by the demand of the French,
upon the Turkish government, for the control of the
Holy Sepulchre, which, they allege, was guaranteed
to them by treaty in 1740. Through the agency of
their Minister, the French had succeeded in procuring
an admission of the binding force of the
treaty: but just then the Russian Minister presented
a demand that the Holy Sepulchre should still remain
in the hands of the Greek Church. This remonstrance
caused the Porte to hesitate: and the
affair is still undecided.
</p>

<p>
From <hi rend='smallcaps'>China</hi> and the <hi rend='smallcaps'>East</hi> news a month
later
<pb n='415'/><anchor id='Pg415'/>
has been received. From Bombay intelligence is to
Nov. 17. A very severe hurricane occurred in and
around Calcutta on the 22d of October, and caused
great damage to the shipping as well as to houses:
a great many persons were killed. Hostilities have
again broken out between the English and the natives
at Gwalior. Troops had been sent out upon
service, but no engagements are reported.&mdash;In consequence
of rival claimants to the throne, a fearful
scene of anarchy and blood is commencing in Affghanistan.
Many of the Hindoo traders and other
peacable inhabitants have fled from the country, and
were putting themselves under British protection.&mdash;An
extensive fire occurred in Canton, Oct. 4, destroying
five hundred houses and an immense amount of
property. The intelligence of the Chinese rebellion
was very vague, and the movement had ceased to
excite interest or attract attention.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Editor's Table.</head>

<p>
The Value of the Union.&mdash;In our periodical
rounds, we have arrived at the month which
numbers in its calendar the natal day of Washington.
What subject, then, more appropriate for such a period
than the one we have placed at the head of our
editorial Table? <q><hi rend='italic'>The Value of the Union</hi></q>&mdash;in other
words, the value of our national Constitution? Who
shall estimate it? By what mathematical formula
shall we enter upon a computation requiring so many
known and unknown forces to be taken into the account,
and involving results so immense in the number
and magnitude of their complications? No problem
in astronomy or mechanics is to be compared
with it. As a question of science, the whole solar
system presents nothing more intricate. It is not a
<q>problem of three bodies,</q> but of thirty; and these
regarded not merely in their internal dynamical relations,
but in their moral bearings upon an outer world
of widely varied and varying forces.
</p>

<p>
In the computations of stocks and dividends, and
the profit and loss of commercial partnerships, the
process is comparatively clear. The balance is ever
of one ascertained kind, and expressed in one uniform
circulating medium. There is but one standard
of value, and, therefore, the methods of ordinary
arithmetic are sufficient. But in this estimate, which
the most ordinary politician sometimes thinks himself
perfectly competent to make, there enter elements
that the highest analysis might fail to master. This
is because the answer sought presents itself under
so many aspects, and in such a variety of relations.
</p>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>The Value of the Union.</hi></q>&mdash;We have forgotten
who first employed the ill-omened expression, but it
has set us thinking in how many ways it may be
taken, and how many different kinds of value may
be supposed to enter into such a calculation.
</p>

<p>
And first&mdash;for our subject is so important as to
require precision&mdash;we may attempt to consider the
value of our national Constitution as A WORK OF ART.
This is a choice term of the day&mdash;a favorite mode of
speech with all who would affect a more than ordinary
elevation of thought and sentiment. Profound
ideas are sought in painting, statuary, and architecture.
The ages, it is said, speak through them, and
in them. The individual minds and hands by which
they receive their outward forms, are only representative
of deeper tendencies existing in the generic
humanity. In the department of architecture, especially,
some of the favorite writers of the age are
analyzing the elements of its ideal excellence. The
perfection of an architectural structure is its rhythm,
its analogy, its inward harmonious support, its outward
adaptedness to certain ends, or the expression
of certain thoughts, or the giving form and embodiment
to certain emotions&mdash;in other words, what may
be called its artistic logic. Whether this be all true,
or whether there is much cant and affectation mingled
with it, still may we say that, in the best sense in
which such an expression has ever been employed
of statuary or architecture, is our Federal Constitution
a high and glorious <emph>work of art</emph>; and if it had no
other value, this alone would make it exceedingly
precious in the eyes of all who have a taste for the
sublimity and beauty of order, who love the just and
true, and who regard the highest dignity and well-being
of our humanity as consisting in a right appreciation
of these ideas. One of the most popular and
instructive works of the day is Ruskin on the different
styles of architecture. Would it be thought
whimsical to compare with this the Letters of Madison
and Hamilton on the Federal Constitution?
We refer to the well-known work entitled The Federalist,
and on whose profound disquisitions the pillars
of our government may be said to rest. Yes,
<emph>there</emph>, we boldly affirm it, <emph>there</emph>, is to be found the
true τὸ καλόν&mdash;there is architectural and constructive
rhythm. There is analogy of ideas, there is harmony
of adaptation, there is unity of power. There is
both statistical and dynamical beauty&mdash;the beauty of
rest, the beauty of strength in repose, the beauty of
action in harmonious equilibrium. There is that
which gives its highest charm to music, the perception
of ratios, and ideas, and related chords, instead
of mere unmeaning sounds. There is that which
makes the enchantment of the picture, the exquisite
blending of colors, the proper mingling of light and
shade, the perspective adjustment of the near and
the remote. There are all the elements of that high
satisfaction we experience in the contemplation of
any dramatic act, or of any structure, real or ideal,
in which there is a perfect arrangement of mutually
supporting parts, and a perfect resolution of mutually
related forces, all combined with harmonious reference
to a high and glorious end.
</p>

<p>
Irrespective, then, of its more immediate social
and political utilities, there is a high value in our Federal
Constitution when viewed thus in reference solely
to its artistic excellence. We may thus speak of
its worth <foreign rend='italic'>per se</foreign>, as a model of the τὸ καλόν, just as we
would of that of a picture, or a temple, or an anthem.
But even in this aspect it has its higher utilities. Is
there no value in the elevating effect it must ever
have upon those who have intellect enough to comprehend
what we have called its artistic logic, and
soul enough to feel the harmonizing influence of its
artistic beauty? Will not a people reason better
who have ever before them a work which has been
the result of so much philosophical and scientific
<pb n='416'/><anchor id='Pg416'/>
thought? Will not their moral taste be purified, and
their love of the true and the beautiful be increased,
in proportion as their minds enter truly into the harmony
of such a structure? Is it a mere fancy to
suppose that such a silent yet powerful educating
influence in our Constitution may be more effectual,
on many minds, than any direct restraining power
of special statutes?
</p>

<p>
This train of thought is tempting, and suggests a
great variety of illustrations, but we can not dwell
on them. If the man who should maliciously cause
the destruction of a splendid cathedral, who should
set fire to St. Peter's or St. Paul's, or who should
wantonly mar a master-piece of Power or Canova&mdash;if
such a one, we say, would justly be visited with
the execration of the civilized world, of how much
sorer punishment should he be thought worthy who
should traitorously conspire the death of our American
Union, or even think of applying the torch to
the glorious structure of our Federal Constitution?
Even to speak lightly of its value should be regarded
as no ordinary treason. But let us come down to
what many would regard a more practical and utilitarian
view of the matter.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>as an example to the world.</hi>&mdash;What arithmetic
shall estimate the value of our Union and of
our political institutions in this respect? This is
the second element in our computation; although in
view of the present condition of mankind it might
even seem entitled to the first and highest place. Between
the wild surgings of radicalism and the iron-bound
coast of despotism, what hope for the nations
if the fairest and strongest ship of constitutional liberty
part her anchors, only to be engulfed in the
yawning vortex on the one side, or dashed to pieces
against the rocks on the other? When will the experiment
ever be tried under fairer auspices? When
may we again expect such a combination of favoring
circumstances, propitious providences, moral and religious
influences, formative ideas, and historical
training as have all concurred in building up the
fabric which some would so recklessly destroy? If
after the preparation of centuries&mdash;if after all our
claims to a higher Christianity, a higher civilization,
a higher science&mdash;if after all our boasts of progress,
and of the Press, and of the capacity of man for self-government&mdash;the
result of it all should be a dissolution
of our political and national existence before one
generation of its founders had wholly passed away,
what can we expect&mdash;we earnestly ask every serious
reader deeply to ponder this most plain and practical
question&mdash;what can we expect of the frivolous French
infidelity, or the deeper, and therefore far more dangerous
German pantheism, or the untaught serfdom
of Austria and Russia? It may, perhaps, be said,
that the mere dissolution of our Union would not involve
any such eventful issue. It is only a temporary
expedient (it might be maintained), not belonging
to the essence of our nationality, and the real
sovereignty, or sovereignties would not be impaired by
its loss. Our State governments would remain, and
other lesser confederacies might be formed, if political
exigencies should require them. This suggests
the <emph>third aspect</emph> under which we would consider the
problem that has presented itself for our editorial
contemplations.
</p>

<p>
<emph>The Value of our Union</emph> as <hi rend='smallcaps'>the key-stone of
state authority</hi>, and of all that may be legitimately
included under the idea of State sovereignty. Who
shall estimate it in this respect? We are too much
inclined to regard our general government, as in some
respects, a foreign one, as something outside of our
proper nationality, as an external band, or wrapper,
that may be loosened without much danger, rather
than what it really is, or, at least has become in
time, a <emph>con-necting</emph>, interweaving, all-pervading principle,
constituting not merely a <emph>sum</emph> of adjacent <emph>parts</emph>,
but a <emph>whole</emph> of organic <emph>membership</emph>; so that a severance
would not leave merely disintegrated fractions,
possessing each the same vitality it would have had,
or might once have had, if there had never been such
membership. The wound could not be inflicted
without a deep, and, perhaps, deadly injury, not
only to the life of the whole, as a whole, but to the
vital forces through which the lower and smaller
sections of each several member may have been respectively
bound into political unities. It is true,
our general government had a peculiar origin, and
stands, <emph>in time</emph>, subsequent to the State authorities.
It might seem, therefore, to some, to derive its life
from them, instead of being itself a proper fountain
of vitality. This is <emph>chronologically</emph> true; but such an
inference from it would be <emph>logically</emph> false, and could
only proceed from a very superficial study of the law
of political organisms. Whatever may have been the
origin of the parts, or the original circumstances of
their union, we must now regard the body that has
grown out of them as a living organic whole, which
can not suffer without suffering throughout. It is
<emph>alive all over</emph>, and you can put the amputating knife
in no place without letting out some of the life-blood
that flows in each member, and in every fibre of
each member. It had, indeed, its origin in the union
of the parts, but its vital principle has modified the
parts, and modified their life, so that you can not
now hurt it, or kill it, without producing universal
pain and universal death. Nor was such union
either arbitrary or accidental. Our general political
organization was as naturally born out of the circumstances
in which we were placed, as our several
State polities grew out of the union of the feeble and
varied sources in which they had their historical origin.
The written Constitution declarative of the national
coalescence (or <emph>growing together</emph>) only expressed
an <emph>effect</emph>, instead of constituting a cause.
</p>

<p>
To change our metaphor, for the sake of varied and
easy illustration, we may say, that the Federal Constitution,
though last in the actual order of construction,
has come to be the key-stone of the whole arch.
It can not now be taken out but at the risk of every
portion crumbling into atoms. The State interest
may have been predominant in the earlier periods,
but generations have since been born under the security
of this arch, and a conservative feeling of nationality
has been growing up with it. In this way
our general government, our State governments, our
county or district governments, our city corporations,
the municipal authorities of our towns and villages,
have become <emph>cemented</emph> together into one grand harmonious
whole, whose coherence is the coherence of
every part, and in which no part is the same it would,
or might have been, had no such interdependent coherence
ever taken place. It becomes, therefore, a
question of the most serious moment&mdash;What would
be the effect of loosening this key of the arch?
Could we expect any stone to keep its place, be it
great or small? In other words, have we any reason
to believe that such an event would be succeeded by
two, or three, or a few confederacies, still bound together,
or might we not rather expect a universal
dissolution of our grand national system?
</p>

<p>
And would it stop here? The charm once broken,
would the wounded feeling of nationality find repose
in our State governments, or would they, too, in their
turn, feel the effects of the same dissolving and decomposing
process? These, also, are but creations
<pb n='417'/><anchor id='Pg417'/>
of law, and compacts, and historical events, and accidents
of locality, in which none of the present generation
had any share, and which have brought all
the smaller political powers within certain boundaries
to be members of one larger body politic, with all the
irregularities and inequalities it may geographically
present. What magic, then, in the bond that holds
together the smaller parts composing New York, or
Virginia, or Massachusetts, or South Carolina, which
is not to be found in the national organization?
What sacred immutability in the results giving rise
to the one class of political wholes that does not exist
in the other? Such questions are becoming already
rife among us, and let the healthful charm of
our greater nationality be once lost, they would
doubtless multiply with a rapidity that might startle
even the most radical. The doctrine may not be intended,
but it would logically and inevitably result
from much of our most popular oratory on the inherent
right of self-government, that any part of any separate
State might sever its connection with the whole, or
might form a union with any contiguous territory,
whenever it might seem to the majority of such part
to be for their interest, or to belong to their abstract
right to make such secession or annexation. There
is, however, an extreme to which the principle may
be carried, even beyond this. The tendency to what
is called individualism, or the making all positive
legislation dependent for its authority upon the higher
law of the individual sanction, would soon give a practical
solution to the most disorganizing theories that
now exist as germs in the idea expressed by that
barbarous but most expressive term <emph>come-outer-ism</emph>.
And this suggests the next and closely related aspect
of our important problem.
</p>

<p>
There is, in the fourth place, the value of the national
Constitution as <hi rend='smallcaps'>the grand conservator of all
lower law</hi>, and of all lower political rights whatever.
No law of the State, of the city, of the family,
of the school, no contract between man and man, no
prescriptive right, no title to property, no exclusive
domain in land, no authority over persons, could fail
to be weakened by a wound inflicted on the all-conserving
law of our higher nationality. There are
none of these but what are even now demoralized,
and seriously affected in their most inner sanctions,
by the increasing practice of speaking lightly of a
bond so sacred. What right has he to the possession
of his acres who counsels resistance to one law of
the land, and, in so doing, strikes at the very life of
the authority by which he holds all he calls his own?
It must be true of human, as well as of the Divine
law, that he who offends in one point is guilty of all.
The severence of one link breaks the whole chain.
There is no medium between complete submission
to every constitutional ordinance, or rightful and violent
revolution against the whole political system.
But if such inconsistency can be charged on him
who claims the right of property in land, although
that, too, is beginning to be disputed, with how much
more force does it press on the man who asserts
property, or&mdash;if a less odious term is preferred&mdash;authority,
in persons? We do not dispute his claim.
It comes from the common source of all human authority,
whether of man over man, or of man to the
exclusion of man from a challenged domain. But
certainly <emph>his</emph> title can have no other foundation than
the political institutions of the country maintained in
all their coherent integrity; and, therefore, he who
asserts it should be very conservative, he should be
very reverent of law in all its departments, he should
be very tender of breaking Constitutions, he should
hold in the highest honor the decisions of an interpreting
judiciary. He should, in short, be the very
last man ever to talk of revolution, or nullification,
or secession, or of any thing else that may in the
least impair the sacredness or stability of constitutional
law.
</p>

<p>
Call government, then, what we will, social compact,
divine institution, natural growth of time and
circumstances&mdash;conceive of it under any form&mdash;still
there is ever the same essential idea. It is ever one
absolute, earthly, sovereign power, acting, within a
certain territory, as the sanction and guaranty of all
civil or political rights, in other words, of all rights
that can not exist without it. There may be many
intermediate links in the chain, but it is only by virtue
of this, in the last appeal, that one man has the
exclusive right to the house in which he lives, or to
the land which he occupies. Hence alone, too, are
all the <emph>civil</emph> rights of marriage and the domestic relations.
The family is born of the state. On this account,
says Socrates, may it be held that <emph>the law has
begotten us</emph>, and we may be justly called its sons.
There is the same idea in the maxim of Cicero, <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>In
aris et focis est respublica</foreign>; and in this thought we
find the peculiar malignity of that awful crime of
treason. It is a <emph>breach of trust</emph>, and, in respect to
government, of the most sacred trust. It is the foulest
parricide. It is aiming a dagger at that civic life
from which flows all the social and domestic vitality.
The notion, in feudal times, had for its outward type
the relation of lord and dependent&mdash;of service and
obedience on the one hand, and protection on the
other. The form has changed, but the essential idea
remains, and ever must remain, while human government
exists on earth. He who breaks this vital bond,
he who would seek to have the protection to his person
and his property, while he forfeits the tenure of
citizenship, he is the <emph>traitor</emph>. And hence arises the
essential difference between treason and mobbism.
The man who is guilty of the former not only commits
violence, but means by that violence to assail the
very existence through which alone he himself may be
said to exist as a citizen, or member of a living
political organism. There is no more alarming feature
of the times than the indifference with which
men begin to look upon this foul, unnatural crime, and
even to palliate it under the softened title of <q>political
offenses,</q> or a mere difference in political opinions.
To punish it is thought to savor only of barbarism
and a barbarous age. If we judge, however,
from the tremendous consequences which must result
from its impunity, ordinary murder can not be named
in the comparison. If he who takes a single life deserves
the gallows, of how much sorer punishment
shall he be thought worthy who aims at the life of a
nation&mdash;a nation, too, like our own, the world's last
hope, the preservation of whose political integrity is
the most effectual means of <hi rend='smallcaps'>intervention</hi> we can
employ in favor of true freedom in every other part
of the globe.
</p>

<p>
And this brings us to our fifth measure of value, but
we can only briefly state it. The world has seen
enough of despotism. It is probable, too, that there
will be no lack of lawless popular anarchy. In this
view of things, how precious is every element of
constitutional liberty! How important to have its
lamp ever trimmed and burning, as a guide to the
lost, a bright consolation of hope to the despairing!
Only keep this light steadily shining out on the dark
sea of despotism, and it will do more for the tossing
and foundering nations than any rash means of help
that, without any avail for good, may only draw down
our own noble vessel into the angry breakers, and
engulfing billows of the same shipwreck.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='418'/><anchor id='Pg418'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Editor's Easy Chair.</head>

<p>
Even yet the talk of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Louis Napoleon</hi>, and of
that audacious action which in a day transmuted
our thriving sister republic, with her regularly-elected
President, and her regularly-made&mdash;though somewhat
tattered&mdash;Constitution, into a kind of anomalous
empire, with only an army, and a Bonaparte to hold
it together&mdash;is loud, in every corner of the country.
It has seemed not a little strange, that the man, at
whom, three years ago, every one thought it worth
his while to fling a sneer, should have gathered into
his hands, with such deft management, the reins of
power, and absolutely out-manœuvred the bustling
little <hi rend='smallcaps'>Thiers</hi>, and
the bold-acting <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cavaignac</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Old travelers are recalling their recollection of the
spruce looking gentleman, in white kids, and with
unexceptionable beaver, who used to saunter with
one or two mustached companions along Pall-Mall;
and who, some three months after, in even more
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>recherche</foreign> costume, used to take his morning
drive, with four-in-hand, upon the asphalte surface of the
Paris avenues. There seemed really nothing under
cover of his finesse in air and garb which could work
out such long-reaching strategy as he has just now
shown us.
</p>

<p>
Belabor him as we will, with our honest republican
anathemas, there must yet have been no small degree
of long-sightedness belonging to the man who could
transform a government in a day; and who could
have laid such finger to the pulse of a whole army
of Frenchmen, as to know their heart-bound to a
very fraction.
</p>

<p>
The truth is, the French, with the impulse of a
quick-blooded race, admire audacity of any sort; and
what will call a shout, will, in nine cases out of ten,
call a welcome. It is not a little hard for a plain,
matter-of-fact American to conceive of the readiness
with which the French army, and all the myrmidons
of that glowing republican power, shift their allegiance&mdash;as
obedient as an opera chorus to the wink
of the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>maestro</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
We can ourselves recall the memory of a time
when that <hi rend='smallcaps'>Changarnier</hi>, who is now a lion in fetters,
held such rule over Paris military and Paris
constabulary, that a toss of his thumb would send
half the representatives to prison; and now, there is
not so much as a regiment who would venture a wail
for his losses. This offers sad comment on the
<q>thinking capacity</q> of bayonets!
</p>

<p>
What shall we suppose of these hundred thousand
scene-shifters in the red pantaloons? Are they
worked upon merely by the Napoleonic champagne
to a change of views; or are they tired of a sham
Republic, and willing to take instead a sham Empire;
or have they grown political economists, with new
appreciation of government stability, and a long-sighted
eagerness to secure tranquillity? Or, is not
the humbler truth too patent, that their opinions herd
together by a kind of brute sympathy, and are acted
upon by splendor&mdash;whether of crime or of munificence;
and, moreover, is it not too clear that those
five hundred thousand men who prop the new dynasty
with bayonets, are without any sort of what
we call moral education, and rush to every issue like
herds of wild bison&mdash;guided solely by instinct?
</p>

<p>
And would not a little of that sort of education
which sets up school-houses, and spreads newspapers,
and books, and Harper's Magazines like dew
over the length and the breadth of our land, do more
toward the healing of that sick French nation, than
the prettiest device of Constitution, or the hugest
five-sous bath-house? Ah, well-a-day, we shall have
little hope for <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>la belle France</foreign>,
<hi rend='smallcaps'>until her army
shows intelligence</hi>, and <hi rend='smallcaps'>her statesmen honesty</hi>.
</p>

<p>
We can hardly give this current topic the go-by,
without bringing to our reader's eye a happy summing
up of suppositions in the columns of Punch,
and if our listener will only read Congressional for
Parliamentary, and the <hi rend='italic'>Bentons</hi>
and the <hi rend='italic'>Casses</hi> for
the <hi rend='italic'>Grahames</hi> and the
<hi rend='italic'>Gladstones</hi>, he may form a very
accurate idea of a <hi rend='italic'>Napoleon-Mr.-Fillmore</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Suppose the head of the Executive, or the Minister
for the time being, were to take it into his head one
morning to abolish the Houses of Parliament.&mdash;Suppose
some of the members elected by large constituencies
were to think it a duty to go and take their
seats, and were to be met at the doors by swords and
bayonets, and were to be wounded and taken off to
prison for the attempt.&mdash;Suppose the Minister, having
been harassed by a few Parliamentary debates and
discussions, were to send off to Newgate or the
House of Correction a few of the most eminent
members of the Opposition, such as the Disraelis, the
Grahames, the Gladstones, the Barings, and a sprinkling
of the Humes, the Wakleys, the Walmsleys, the
Cobdens, and the Brights.&mdash;Suppose the press having
been found not to agree with the policy of the Minister,
he were to peremptorily stop the publication
of the <hi rend='italic'>Times</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Herald</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Chronicle</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Post</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Advertiser</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Daily News</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Globe</hi>, &amp;c., &amp;c., and limit the organs
of intelligence to the Government <hi rend='italic'>Gazette</hi>, or one or
two other prints that would write or omit just what
he, the Minister, might please.&mdash;Suppose, when it
occurred to the public that these measures were not
exactly in conformity with the law, the Minister
were to go or send some soldiers down to Westminster
Hall, shut up the Courts, send the Lord Chancellor
about his business, and tell Lords Campbell,
Cranworth, and all the rest of the high judicial authorities,
to make the best of their way home.&mdash;Suppose
a few Members of Parliament were to sign a
protest against these proceedings; and suppose the
documents were to be torn down by soldiers, and the
persons signing them packed off to Coldbath Fields
or Pentonville.&mdash;Suppose all these things were to
happen with a Parliament elected by Universal Suffrage,
and under a Republican form of Government[.]&mdash;And
lastly&mdash;Suppose we were to be told that this
sort of thing is liberty, and what we ought to endeavor
to get for our own country;&mdash;Should we look
upon the person telling us so, as a madman, or a
knave, or both? and should we not be justified in
putting him as speedily, and as unceremoniously as
possible&mdash;outside our doors?
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
In our last <hi rend='smallcaps'>easy</hi> chat with our readers, we sketched
in an off-hand way the current of the <hi rend='smallcaps'>Kossuth</hi> talk;
and we hinted that our enthusiasm had its fevers and
chills; so far as the talk goes, a chilliness has come
over the town since the date of our writing&mdash;an unworthy
and ungracious chill&mdash;but yet the natural result
of a little over-idolatry. As for Congressional
action, no apology can be found, either in moderation
or good sense, for the doubtful and halting welcome
which has been shown the great Hungarian.
</p>

<p>
The question of Government interference in his
national quarrel was one thing; but the question of
a welcome to a distinguished and suffering stranger
was quite another. The two, however, have been
unfortunately mingled; and a rude and vulgar effort
has been made to prejudge his mission, by affronting
him as a guest. We may be strong enough to brave
Russia, and its hordes of Cossacks; but no country
is strong enough to trample on the laws of hospitality
<pb n='419'/><anchor id='Pg419'/>
We see the hint thrown out in some paper of the
day, that the slackened sympathy for <hi rend='smallcaps'>Kossuth</hi>, in
Washington, is attributable mainly to the influence
of the diplomatic circles of that city. We fear there
may be a great deal of truth in this hint: our enthusiasm
finds volume in every-day chit-chat, and dinner-table
talk; it lives by such fat feeding as gossip
supplies; and gossip finds its direction in the salons
of the most popular of entertainers.
</p>

<p>
Washington has a peculiar and shifting social
character&mdash;made up in its winter elements of every
variety of manner and of opinion. This manner and
these opinions, however, are very apt to revolve
agreeably to what is fixed at the metropolis; and
since the diplomatic circles of the capital are almost
the only permanent social foci of habit and gossip, it
is but natural there should be a convergence toward
their action. The fact is by no means flattering; but we
greatly fear that it is pointed with a great deal of truth.
</p>

<p>
Our readers will observe, however, that we account
in this way only for the slackened tone of talk, and
of salon enthusiasm; nor do we imagine that any
parlor influences whatever of the capital can modify
to any considerable degree, either legislative, or
moral action.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Of Paris, now that she has fallen again into one,
of her political paroxysms, there is little gayety to
be noted. And yet it is most surprising how that
swift-blooded people will play the fiddle on the barricades!
Never&mdash;the papers tell us&mdash;were the receptions
at the Elysée more numerously attended, and
never were the dresses richer, or the jewels more
ostentatiously displayed.
</p>

<p>
Some half dozen brilliant <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>soirées</foreign> were, it
seems, on the <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>tapis</foreign>
at the date of Louis Napoleon's manœuvre;
the invitations had been sent, and upon the evenings
appointed&mdash;a week or more subsequent to the turn
of the magic lantern&mdash;the guests presented themselves
before closed doors. The occupants and intended
hosts were, it seems, of that timid class living
along the Faubourg St. Honoré and the Faubourg St.
Germain, who imagined themselves, their titles, and
their wealth, safer under the wing of King Leopold
of Belgium, than under the shadow of the new-feathered
eagle. A thriving romance or two, they say,
belonged to the quiet movements of the Republic.
Thus, the papers make us a pleasant story out of
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Cavaignac</hi> and his prospective bride, Mademoiselle
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Odier</hi>. And if we furbish up for the reading of our
country clients, we venture to say that we shall keep
as near the truth as one half of the letter-writers.
</p>

<p>
For two or three years, it seems that General Cavaignac
has been a constant visitor at the house of
the rich banker, <hi rend='smallcaps'>M. Odier</hi>, He was regarded as a
friend of the family, and wore the honors of a friend;
that is to say, he had such opportunities of conversation,
and for attention in respect to the daughter of
the house, as is rarely accorded to Paris ladies in
their teens. The General looks a man of fifty&mdash;he
may be less; but he has a noble carriage, a fine
face, and a manner full of dignity and gentleness.
The pretty blonde (for Mlle. Odier is so described),
was not slow to appreciate the captivating qualities
of the General. Moreover, there belonged to her
character a romantic tinge, which was lighted up by
the story of the General's bravery, and of the dauntless
way in which he bore himself through the murderous
days of June. In short, she liked him better
than she thought.
</p>

<p>
The General, on the other hand, somewhat fixed
in his bachelor habitude, and counting himself only
a fatherly friend, who could not hope, if he dared, to
quicken any livelier interest&mdash;wore imperturbably the
dignity and familiarity of his first manner.
</p>

<p>
One day&mdash;so the story runs&mdash;conversation turned
upon a recent marriage, in which the bridegroom was
some thirty years the lady's senior. The General in
round, honest way, inveighed against the man as a
deceiver of innocence, and avowed strongly his belief
that such inequality of age was not only preposterous,
but wicked.
</p>

<p>
Poor Mademoiselle Odier!&mdash;her fond heart feeding
so long blindly on hope, lighted by romance and love,
could not bear the sudden shock. She grew pale&mdash;paler
still, and, to the surprise of the few friends who
were present&mdash;fainted.
</p>

<p>
Even yet the General lived in ignorance; and
would perhaps have died in ignorance, had not some
kind friend made known to him the state of Mlle[.]
Odier's feelings. The General was too gallant a man
to be conquered in loving; and the issue was, in a
week, an acknowledged troth of the banker's daughter
with the General Cavaignac.
</p>

<p>
Upon the evening preceding the change of the
Republic, they were together&mdash;father, daughter, and
lover&mdash;at the first presentation of a new play. The
marriage was fixed for the week to come. But in
view of the unsettled state of affairs, the General
advised a postponement. The next morning he was
a prisoner, on his way to Ham.
</p>

<p>
He wrote&mdash;the gossips tell us&mdash;a touching letter to
Mademoiselle Odier, giving up all claim upon her, as
a prisoner, which he had so proudly boasted while
free, and assuring her of his unabated devotion.
</p>

<p>
She wrote&mdash;the gossips tell us&mdash;that he was dearer
to her now than ever.
</p>

<p>
So the matter stands; with the exception that
Cavaignac has been freed, and that the day of marriage
is again a matter of consultation.
</p>

<p>
May they have a long life, and a happy one&mdash;longer
and happier than the life of the Republic!
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The drawing of the <q>Lottery of Gold</q> was <emph>the
event</emph> of Paris which preceded the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>coup-d'état</foreign>. Some
seven millions of tickets had been sold at a franc
each; and the highest prize was, if we mistake not,
a sum equal to a hundred thousand dollars. Interest
was of course intense; and the National Circus, where
the lots were drawn, was crowded to its utmost capacity.
The papers give varying accounts as to the
fortunate holder of the ticket drawing the first prize,
one account represents her as a poor washerwoman,
and another, as a street porter. A story is told of one
poor fellow who, by a mistaken reading of one figure,
imagined himself the fortunate possessor of the fortune.
He invited his friends to a feast, and indulged
in all sorts of joyous folly. The quick revulsion of
feeling, when the truth appeared, was too much for the
poor fellow's brain, and he is now in the mad-house.
</p>

<p>
Another equally unfortunate issue is reported of a
poor seamstress, who had spent the earnings of years,
amounting to six or seven hundred francs, upon the
chance of a prize, and drew&mdash;nothing. She, too, has
lost both money and mind. The affair, however, has
had the fortunate result of taming down wild expectancies,
and of destroying the taste for such labor
hating schemes of profit. It were devoutly to be
hoped, that a little of the distaste for moneyed lotteries,
would breed a distaste in the French mind for political
lotteries.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
As for affairs at home, they budge on in much the
old fashion. The town is not over-gay&mdash;partly through
fatigues of last winter, which are not yet wholly forgotten&mdash;partly
through a little Wall-street depletion,
<pb n='420'/><anchor id='Pg420'/>
and partly through the ugly weather, which has sown
catarrhs and coughs with a very liberal hand.
</p>

<p>
Poor Jenny Lind&mdash;true to her native tenderness
of heart, has yielded up the closing scenes of what
would have been a glorious triumph, to the grief at a
mother's death. She goes away from us mourning,
and she leaves behind her a nation of mourners!
</p>

<p>
The opera is to tinkle in our ears again&mdash;with the
symphony of Steffanone, Benedetti, and the rest. The
town takes music quietly this winter, and the old fashion
of listening has almost grown into a habit of appreciation.
The town is building up into a Paris-sided
company of streets; and the seven stories of
freestone and marble will soon darken down Broadway
into a European duskiness of hue. The street
lights glimmer on such nights as the almanac tells no
story of the moon; and on other nights we draggle as
we may, between clouds and rain&mdash;consoling ourselves
with the rich city economy, and hopeful of
some future and freer dispensation&mdash;of gas.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
For want of some piquancy, which our eye does
not catch in the French journals, we sum up our chit-chat
with this pleasant whim-wham of English flavor:
</p>

<p>
My man Davis is a bit of a character. If he's not
up to a thing or two, I should like to know who is.
I am often puzzled to know how a man who has seen
so much of life as he has should condescend to have
<q>no objection to the country,</q> and to take service
with a retired linen-draper, which I am. I keep a
dog-cart, and, not being much of a whip, Davis generally
drives. He has some capital stories; at least
I think so; but perhaps it is his manner of telling
them; or perhaps I'm very easily pleased. However,
here's one of them.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>how mr. coper sold a horse.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Mr. Coper, as kept the Red Lion Yard, in &mdash;&mdash;
street, was the best to sell a horse I ever know'd, sir;
and I know'd some good 'uns, I have; but he <emph>was</emph> the
best. He'd look at you as tho' butter wouldn't melt
in his mouth, and his small wall-eyes seemed to have
no more life in 'em than a dead whiting's. My master,
Capt. &mdash;&mdash;, stood his hosses there, and, o' course,
I saw a good deal of Mr. Coper. One day a gent
came to look at the stable, and see if he could buy a
hoss. Coper saw in a minute that he knew nothing
about horseflesh, and so was uncommon civil. The
first thing he showed him was a great gray coach-hoss,
about seventeen hands and a inch, with a shoulder
like a Erkilus.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I suppose you mean Hercules?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I suppose I do, sir. The gent was a little man
so, o' course, the gray was taken in agen, and a Suffolk
Punch cob, that 'ud a done for a bishop, was then
run up the yard. But, lor! the little gent's legs 'ud
never have been of any use to him; they'd a' stuck
out on each side like a curricle-bar&mdash;so he wouldn't
do. Coper showed him three or four others&mdash;good
things in their way, but not at all suited to the gent.
At last Coper says to him, with a sort of sigh, <q>Well,
sir, I'm afear'd we shan't make a deal of it to-day, sir;
you're very particular, as you've a right to be, and
I'll look about, and if I can find one that I think 'll
do, I'll call on you.</q> By this time he had walked the
gent down the stable to opposite a stall where was a
brown hoss, fifteen hands or about, <q>Now there 'ud
be the thing to suit you, sir,</q> says he, <q>and I only
wish I could find one like him.</q> <q>Why can't I have
him?</q> says the gent. <q>Impossible,</q> says Coper.
<q>Why impossible?</q> says the gent. <q>Because he's
Mrs. Coper's hoss, and money wouldn't buy him of
her; he's perfect, and she knows it.</q> <q>Well,</q> says
the gent, getting his steam up, <q>I don't mind price</q>
<q>What's money to peace of mind?</q> says Coper. <q>If
I was to sell that hoss, my missis would worry my
life out.</q> Well, sir, the more Coper made a difficulty
of selling the hoss, the more the gent wanted to buy,
till at last Coper took him to a coach-hus, as tho' to
be private, and said to him in a whisper, <q>Well,
tell you what I'll do: I'll take ninety pounds for him;
perhaps he's not worth that to every body, but I think
he is to you, who wants a perfect thing, and ready-made
for you.</q> <q>You're very kind,</q> said the gent,
<q>and I'll give you a check at once.</q> <q>But, mind,</q> says
Coper, <q>you must fetch him away at night; for if my
missus saw him going out of the yard, I do believe
she'd pull a life-guardsman off him. How I shall pacify
her I don't know! Ninety pounds! why, ninety
pounds won't pay me for the rows; leave alone the
hoss!</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The gent quite thought Coper was repenting of
the bargain, and so walked away to the little countin'-house,
and drew a check for the money. When
he was gone, I burst out a-laughin'; because I know'd
Mrs. Coper was as mild as a bran-mash, and 'ud never
a' dared to blow up her husband; but Coper wouldn't
have it&mdash;he looked as solemn as truth. Well, sir,
the horse was fetched away that night.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>But why at night, Davis?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Because they shouldn't see his good qualities all
at once, I suppose, sir; for he'd got the Devonshire
coat-of-arms on his off knee.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Devonshire coat-of-arms?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Yes, sir; you see Devonshire's a very hilly country,
and most of the hosses down there has broken
knees, so they calls a speck the Devonshire coat-of-arms.
Well, sir, as Mrs. Coper's pet shied at every
thing and nothing, and bolted when he warn't a-shieing,
the gent came back in about a week to Coper.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Mr. Coper,</q> says he, <q>I can't get on with that
hoss at all&mdash;perhaps I don't know how to manage
him; he goes on so odd that I'am afraid to ride him;
so I thought, as he was such a favorite with Mrs.
Coper, you should have him back again.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Not if you'd give me ninety pounds to do it,</q>
says Coper, looking as tho' he was a-going to bite
the gent.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Why not?</q> says the gent.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>I wouldn't go through what I have gone through,</q>
says Coper, hitting the stable-door with his fist
enough to split it, <q>not for twice the money. Mrs.
Coper never left off rowing for two days and nights,
and how I should a' stopped her, I don't know, if
luck hadn't stood my friend; but I happened to meet
with a hoss the very moral of the one you've got, only
perhaps just a leetle better, and Mrs. C. took to him
wonderful. I wouldn't disturb our domestic harmony
by having that hoss of yourn back again, not for half
the Bank of England.</q> Now the gent was a very
tender-hearted man, and believed all that Coper told
him, and kept the hoss; but what he did with him I
can't think, for he was the wiciousest screw as ever
put his nose in a manger.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Editor's Drawer.</head>

<p>
We placed on record, not long since in the <q>Drawer,</q>
two or three anecdotes of the pomposity
and copied manners of New England negroes, in the
olden time. Here is another one, that seems to us
quite as laughable as the specimens to which we
have alluded. It is not quite certain, but rather
more than probable, that the minister who takes a
part in the story was the same clergyman who said,
in conversation with a distinguished Puritan divine,
<pb n='421'/><anchor id='Pg421'/>
that he could <q>write six sermons a week and make
nothing of it.</q> <q>Precisely!</q> responded the other;
<q>you <emph>would</emph> make <emph>just</emph> nothing of your sermons!</q>
But to the story.
</p>

<p>
There were a good many colored people in Massachusetts
many years ago, and one of them, an old
and favorite servant, was held by a clergyman in one
of the easternmost counties of the State. His name
was Cuffee; and he was as pompous and imitative
as the <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cæsar</hi>, whose master <q>libbed wid him down
on de Plains,</q> in Connecticut. He presumed a good
deal upon his age and consequence, and had as much
liberty to do as he pleased as any body in the house.
On the Sabbath he was always in the minister's pew,
looking around with a grand air, and, so far as appearances
went or indicated, profiting as much by
his master's rather dull preaching as any of the congregation
around him who were pretending to listen.
</p>

<p>
One Sunday morning Cuffee noticed that several
gentlemen in the neighborhood of his master's pew
had taken out their pencils, and were taking notes
of the discourse; either because it was more than
usually interesting, or because they wished it to be
seen by the parson that they <emph>thought</emph> it was. Cuffee
determined that he would follow the example thus
set him; so in the afternoon he brought a sheet of
paper and pen and ink-horn to church with him.
His master, looking down from his pulpit into his
pew, could hardly maintain his gravity, as he saw
his servant <q>spread out</q> to his task, his great red
tongue out, and one side of his face nearly touching
the paper. Cufee applied himself vigorously to his
notes, until his master had come to his <q>sixteenth
and lastly,</q> and <q>in view of this subject we remark,
in the eighth and last place,</q> &amp;c., knowing nothing
all the while, and caring just as little, about the wonderment
of his master, who was occasionally looking
down upon him.
</p>

<p>
When the minister reached home, he sent for Cufee
to come into his study.
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, Cuffee,</q> said he, <q>what was that I saw
you doing in meeting this afternoon?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Me, massa?&mdash;w'at was <emph>I</emph> a-doin?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, Cuffee; what was that you were about, in
stead of listening to the sermon?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I was a-listenin' <emph>hard</emph>, massa, and I was <emph>takin'
notes</emph>.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>You taking notes!</q> exclaimed the minister.
</p>

<p>
<q>Sartain, massa; all de oder gem'men take notes
too.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, Cuffee, let us <emph>see</emph> your notes,</q> said his
master.
</p>

<p>
Hereupon Cuffee produced his sheet of paper.
It was scrawled all over with all sorts of marks and
lines; worse than if a dozen spiders, escaped from
an ink-bottle, had kept up a day's march over it. It
would have puzzled Champollion himself to have
unraveled its mysteries.
</p>

<p>
The minister looked over the notes, as if with
great attention, and at length said,
</p>

<p>
<q>Why, Cuffee, this is all nonsense!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>E'yah! e'yah!</q> replied Cuffee; <q>I t'ought so
myse'f, all de time you was a-preachin'! Dat's a
fac'! E'yah! e'yah!</q>
</p>

<p>
The minister didn't tell the story himself, being
rather shy about the conclusion. It leaked out, however,
through Cuffee, one day, and his master <q>never
heard the last of it.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
In a play which we once read, there is a physician
introduced, who comes to prescribe to a querulous,
nervous old gentleman. His advice and directions
as to what he is to do, &amp;c., greatly annoy the excitable
old man; but his <emph>prescriptions</emph> set him half crazy.
He calls to the servant in a voice like a Stentor&mdash;although
a moment before he had described that organ
as <q>all gone, doctor&mdash;a mere penny-whistle</q>&mdash;and ordered
him to <q>kick the doctor down stairs, and pay
him at the street-door!</q> <q>Calls himself one of the
<q><emph>faculty</emph>?</q></q> growled the old invalid, after the physician
had left in high dudgeon, and vowing vengeance;
<q>calls himself one of the faculty; stupid
old ass! with his white choker and gold-headed cane,
and shrugs, and sighs, and solemn looks: <q>faculty!</q>&mdash;why
he hasn't <emph>got</emph> a faculty! never <emph>had</emph> a faculty!</q>
We thought, at the time of reading this, of an anecdote
which had lain for years in our <q>Drawer,</q> of
the British actress, in one of the provincial towns of
England, who was preparing to enact the solemnly
tragic character of <q>Jane Shore,</q> in the historical
and instructive drama of that name, which is richly
worth perusal, for the lesson which it teaches of the
ultimate punishment of vice, even in its most seductive
form. The actress was in her dressing-room,
preparing for the part, when her attendant, an ignorant
country girl, informed her that a woman had
called to request of her two orders for admission, to
witness the performance of the play, her daughter and
herself having walked four miles on purpose to see it.
</p>

<p>
<q>Does she <emph>know</emph> me?</q> inquired the lady.
</p>

<p>
<q>Not at all; leastways she <emph>said</emph> she didn't,</q> replied
the girl.
</p>

<p>
<q>It is very strange!</q> said the lady&mdash;<q>a most extraordinary
request! Has the good woman got her
<emph>faculties</emph> about her?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I think she <emph>have</emph>, ma'am,</q> responded the girl,
<q>for I see her have summat tied up in a red silk
handkercher!</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
One seldom meets with a truer thing than the following
observations by a quaint and witty author
upon what are termed, less by way of <q>eminence,</q>
perhaps, rather than <q>notoriety,</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Great Talkers</hi>:&mdash;<q>Great
Talkers not only do the least, but generally
<emph>say</emph> the least, if their words be weighed instead of
reckoned.</q> He who labors under an incontinence of
speech seldom gets the better of his complaint; for
he must prescribe for himself, and is very sure of
having a fool for his physician. Many a chatterbox
might pass for a shrewd man, if he would keep his
own secret, and put a drag-chain now and then upon
his tongue. The largest minds have the smallest
opinion of themselves; for their knowledge impresses
them with humility, by showing them the extent
of their ignorance, and the discovery makes them
taciturn. Deep waters are still. Wise men generally
talk little, because they think much. Feeling
the annoyance of idle loquacity in others, they are
cautious of falling into the same error, and keep their
mouths shut when they can not open them to the
purpose. The smaller the <emph>calibre</emph> of the mind, the
greater the <emph>bore</emph> of a perpetually open mouth. Human
heads are like hogsheads&mdash;the emptier they are,
the louder report they give of themselves. I know
human specimens who never think; they only <emph>think</emph>
they think. The clack of their word-mill is heard,
even when there is no wind to set it going, and no
grist to come from it. A distinguished Frenchman,
of the time of Cardinal Richelieu, being in the antechamber
of that wily statesman, on one occasion, at
the time that a great talker was loudly and incessantly
babbling, entreated him to be silent, lest he
might annoy the cardinal.
</p>

<p>
<q>Why do you wish me not to speak?</q> asked the
chatterbox; <q>I talk a good deal, certainly, but then
I talk well.</q>
</p>

<pb n='422'/><anchor id='Pg422'/>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>Half</hi> of that is true!</q> retorted the sarcastic
Frenchman.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
It is getting to be a rather serious business for a
man to stand up, in these modern days, in a court of
justice as a witness. What with impertinent questions
of all sorts, and the impudent <q>bullyragging</q>
of counsel, he is a fortunate and self-possessed man
if he is not nearly at his wits' end before he comes
off from that place of torture, a witness-stand.
<q>Moreover, and which is more,</q> as Dogberry would
say, when he <emph>comes</emph> off, he has not escaped; for now
the reporters take him up; and in a little paragraph,
inclosed in brackets, we hear somewhat of his character,
personal appearance, &amp;c., something after the
following fashion:
</p>

<p>
<q>[Mr. Jenkins is a small, restless, fidgety man,
with little black eyes, one of which has a remarkable
inward inclination toward the nose, which latter
feature of his face turns up slightly, and indicates,
by its color, the influence upon it of alcoholic fluids.
He is lame of one leg, and wore a drab roundabout.
As he left the stand, we observed a patch on the
north side of his pantaloons, which evidenced <q>premeditated
poverty.</q> Mr. Jenkins was an extremely
willing witness.</q>]
</p>

<p>
If the witness is so fortunate as to escape the foregoing
species of counsel, he may fall into the hands
of <emph>another</emph> description; namely, the ambitious young
advocate, who, as <q>the <emph>learned</emph> counsel,</q> considers it
incumbent upon him to use high-sounding words, in
order to impress both the jury and the witness with
the extent of his legal acquirements, and the depth of
his erudition generally.
</p>

<p>
Such a <q>counsel</q> it was, who, some years ago, in
Albany, had assumed the management of the defense
in a case of assault and battery which had occurred
in that good old Dutch city. The witness, a not over-clear-headed
Irishman, was placed upon the stand,
where he was thus interrogated:
</p>

<p>
<q>Your name, you say, is Maloney?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, Si-r-r; Maloney is me name, and me mother's
name that bore me; long life to her in the owld
counthry!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>We don't wish to hear any thing of the <q>ould
counthry,</q> Mr. Maloney,</q> said the <q>witty</q> counsel
<q>Mr. Maloney, do you know my client?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sir?</q> asked Mr. Maloney, in a monosyllable.
</p>

<p>
<q>Do you know <emph>this</emph> man?</q> pointing to his client[.]
</p>

<p>
<q>Yes, Sir-r-r, I seen him wance-t.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, Mr. Maloney, did you see that man, that
individual sitting at your right hand, did you see him
raise his muscular arm, and endeavor to arouse the
passions and excite the fears of my client?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sir?</q> again asked the witness.
</p>

<p>
<q>The Court will please note the hesitancy of the
witness. Let me ask you the <emph>second</emph> time, Mr. Maloney,
did you have an uninterrupted view, were your
optics undimmed, when the plaintiff by your side,
the individual in question, raised his muscular arm,
and with malice prepense and murder aforethought,
assaulted the person of my client, in violation of the
laws of the country <emph>and</emph> of the State of New York?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sir?</q> said the witness, inquiringly, for the third
time.
</p>

<p>
<q>Would it not be well, Mr. &mdash;&mdash;,</q> suggested the
justice upon the bench to the <q>learned counsel,</q> <q>to
put your question to the witness in simpler and more
direct terms?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><emph>Perhaps</emph> so, your honor. The witness is either
very stupid or very designing. Well then, Mr Maloney,
you see that man, the plaintiff there, don't
you?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Sure, I sees that man plain enough foreaninst
me here, but I didn't know he was a <emph>plaintiff</emph>. He
might ha' been a tinker, for all <emph>I</emph> knew about it.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Well, Mr. Maloney, you see him <emph>now</emph>, at least.
Now, sir, do you see <emph>this</emph> man, my client?</q> laying
his hand upon the defendant's shoulder.
</p>

<p>
<q>Bedad I <emph>do</emph>, yer honor; I'm not a mole nor a bat,
yer honor.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Very well, Mr. Maloney. Now, Mr. Maloney,
did you see <emph>that</emph> man strike <emph>this</emph> man?</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I <emph>did</emph>, yer honor, and knock him flat. Faix! but
'twas a big blow! 'Twas like the kick ov a horse!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>Your question is answered, Mr. Counsel,</q> said
the magistrate, <q>and your testimony is now in.</q>
</p>

<p>
Dryden's lesson, that <q>it needs all we know to
make things <emph>plain</emph>,</q> is somewhat illustrated by this
actual occurrence.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Many a disciple of Lavater and of Spurzheim will
tell you that physiology and phrenology are each, and
of themselves, infallible tests of character. But, as
Robert Burns sings:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'>The best-laid schemes of mice and men</q></l>
<l><q rend='post'>Gang aft aglee:</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
a fact which was very humorously illustrated at the
recent trial of the Michigan railroad conspirators.
A man entered the crowded court-room one day, during
the progress of the long-protracted trial, and looking
eagerly around, asked of a by-stander which were
the prisoners? A wag, without moving a muscle,
pointed to the jury-box, and said.
</p>

<p>
<q><emph>There</emph> they are, in that box!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>I <emph>thought</emph> so!</q> said the inquirer, in a whisper.
<q>What a set of gallows-looking wretches they are!
If there's any thing in physiology and phrenology,
they <emph>deserve</emph> hanging, any how!</q>
</p>

<p>
The jury were all <q>picked men</q> of that region!
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
It is a good many years ago now, since we laughed
a good hour by <q>Shrewsbury Clock</q> at the following
description, by the hero of a native romance bearing
his name, of the manner and bearing of New York
Dry Goods <q>Drummers.</q> The scene succeeds the
history of the hero's first acquaintance with a <q>drummer;</q>
who, mistaking him for a country <q>dealer,</q>
had given him his card on board of a steamboat, taken
him to his hotel in town, sent him his wine, given
him tickets to the theatre, and requested him to call
at his store in Hanover-square, where it was his intention
to turn these courtesies to profitable account.
On a bright pleasant morning, accordingly, our hero
visits the store, where Mr. Lummocks, the drummer,
receives him with open arms, and introduces him to
his employer. But we will now let him tell the story
in his own words; and <hi rend='smallcaps'>Dickens</hi> has seldom excelled
the picture:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>He shook me heartily by the hand, and said he
was really delighted to see me. He asked me how
the times were, and offered me a cigar, which I took,
for fear of giving offense, but which I threw away
the very first opportunity I got.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Buy for cash, or on time?</q> he asked.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I was a little startled at the question, it was so
abrupt; but I replied, <q>For cash.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Would you like to look at some prints, major?</q>
he inquired.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>I am made obliged to you,</q> I answered; <q>I am
very fond of seeing prints.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>With that he commenced turning over one piece
of calico after another, with amazing rapidity.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>There, major&mdash;very desirable article&mdash;splendid
style&mdash;only two-and-six: cheapest goods in the street.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Before I could make any reply, or even guess at
<pb n='423'/><anchor id='Pg423'/>
his meaning, he was called away, and Mr. Lummocks
stepped up and supplied his place.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>You had better buy 'em, colonel,</q> said Mr. Lummocks;
<q>they will sell like hot cakes. Did you say
you bought for cash?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Of <emph>course</emph>,</q> I said, <q>if I buy at all.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>He took a memorandum out of his pocket, and
looked in it for a moment.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Let me see,</q> said he, <q>Franco, Franco&mdash;what
did you say your firm was? Something and Franco,
or Franco and Somebody? The name has escaped
me.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>I have no firm,</q> I replied.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>O, you haven't, hain't ye? all alone, eh? But
I don't see that I've got your first name down in my
<q>tickler.</q></q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>My first name is Harry,</q> said I.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Right&mdash;yes&mdash;I remember,</q> said Mr. Lummocks,
making a memorandum; <q>and your references, colonel,
who did you say were your references?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>I have no reference,</q> I replied; <q>indeed I know
of no one to whom I could refer, except my father.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>What&mdash;the old boy in the country, eh?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>My father is in the country,</q> I answered, seriously,
not very well pleased to hear my parent called
the <q>Old Boy.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Then you have no <emph>city</emph> references, eh?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>None at all: I have no friends here, except
yourself.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Me!</q> exclaimed Mr. Lummocks, apparently in
great amazement. <q>Oh, oh!&mdash;but how much of a
bill do you mean to make with us, captain?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Perhaps I may buy a vest-pattern,</q> I replied,
<q>if you have got some genteel patterns.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q><emph>A vest-pattern!</emph></q> exclaimed Mr. Lummocks;
<q>what! haven't you come down for the purpose of
buying goods?</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>No, sir,</q> I replied: <q>I came to New York to
seek for employment; and as you had shown me so
many kind attentions, I thought you would be glad
to assist me in finding a situation.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Mr. Lummock's countenance underwent a very
singular change when I announced my reasons for
calling on him.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Do you see any thing that looks <emph>green</emph> in there?</q>
he asked, pulling down his eyelid with his forefinger.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>No, sir, I do not,</q> I replied, looking very earnestly
into his eye.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Nor in <emph>there</emph>, either?</q> said he, pulling open his
other eye.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Nothing at all, sir,</q> I replied, after a minute examination.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>I guess <emph>not!</emph></q> said Mr. Lummocks; and without
making any other answer, he turned on his heel and
left me.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'><q>Regularly sucked, eh, Jack?</q> asked a young
man who had been listening to our conversation.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q><q>Don't mention it!</q> said Mr. Lummocks; <q>the
man is a fool.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
Our friend was about to demand an explanation
of this strange conduct, when the proprietor came
forward and told him that he was not a retailer but
a <emph>jobber</emph>, and advised him, <q>if he wanted a vest-pattern,
to go into Chatham-street!</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
He must have been a good deal of an observer,
and something of a philosopher also, who wrote as
follows, in a unique paper, some fifteen years ago:
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Man is never contented. He is the fretful baby
of trouble and care, and he will continue to worry
and fret, no matter how pretty are the playthings that
are laid before him to please him. He will sometimes
fret because he can <emph>find nothing to fret about</emph>.
I've known just such men myself. If he were bound
to live in this world forever, he would fret because
he couldn't leave and go to another, <q>just for a
change;</q> and now, seeing that sooner or later he
<emph>must</emph> go, and no mistake, he frets like a caged porcupine,
and thinks he would like to live here always.
The fact is, he don't know <emph>what</emph> he wants.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>I've seen about enough of this world myself. For
forty years I've been searching every nook and corner
for some pleasant spring of happiness, instead of
which I have only found a few flood-swollen streams,
bearing upon their surface innumerable bubbles of
vanity, <emph>and all along by their margins nests of young
humbugs are continually being hatched</emph>. I have drunk
of these waters nigh unto bursting, and have always
departed as dry as a cork.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>In fact, I've been kicked about like an old hat,
nearly used up by the flagellations of Old Time, and am
now feeling the way with my cane down to the silent
valley. But, yet, I'm happy&mdash;<q>happy as a clam at
high water.</q> I sleep like a top, but I don't eat as
much as I used to. Oh! it is a blessed thing to lie
down at night with a light stomach, and a lighter
conscience! You ought to <emph>see</emph> me sleep sometimes!
The way I <q>take it easy is a caution to children!</q></q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
It may not be new, but whether new or not, it is
worthy of being repeated to our readers, the beautiful
reply of a little lad to an English bishop, who said to
him, one day, <q>If you will tell me where <hi rend='smallcaps'>God</hi> is, I'll
give you an orange.</q> <q>If you will tell me where <hi rend='smallcaps'>He</hi>
is <emph>not</emph>,</q> promptly responded the little fellow, <q>I will
give you <emph>two!</emph></q> Better than all earthly logic was the
simple faith of this trusting child.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Here is an awful <q>fixed fact</q> for snuff-takers!
Perhaps the <q>Statistics of Snuff and Sneezing</q>
may yet form a part of some remote census of these
United States:
</p>

<p>
<q>It has been very exactly calculated, that in forty
years, two entire years of the snuff-taker's life are
devoted to tickling his nose, and two more to the
sonorous and agreeable processes of blowing and
wiping it, with other incidental circumstances!</q>
</p>

<p>
How about <q>Statistics of Chewing?</q>&mdash;the time
employed in selecting, inserting, rolling, and ejecting
the quid?&mdash;the length of the yellow lines at the corners
of the mouth, in the aggregate?&mdash;the lakes of saliva,
spirted, squirted, spit, sprinkled, and drizzled?
We commend the pregnant theme to some clever
American statist. Ah! well would it be if we be
stowed half the time in making ourselves agreeable,
that we waste in rendering ourselves offensive to our
friends!
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The late lamented <hi rend='smallcaps'>John Sanderson</hi>, the witty
author of <q>The American in Paris,</q> speaking of
Père La Chaise, says: <q>A Frenchman, who enjoys
life so well, is, of all creatures, the least concerned
at leaving it. He only wishes to be buried in the
great Parisian burying-ground; and often selects his
marble of the finest tints for his monument, and has
his coffin made, and his grave dug in advance.</q> A
lady told the author, with great
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>empressement</foreign>, that she
had rather <emph>not die at all</emph>, than to die and be buried
any where except in Père La Chaise!
</p>

</div>

<pb n='424'/><anchor id='Pg424'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Literary Notices</head>

<p>
Harper and Brothers have published an edition of
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Layard</hi>'s <hi rend='italic'>Popular Account
of Discoveries at Nineveh</hi>,
being an abridgment of his large work on the same
subject, by the author himself. In this edition, the
principal Biblical and historical illustrations are introduced
into the narrative. No changes on any
material points of opinion or fact are made in the
narrative, as more recent discoveries have confirmed
the original statements of the author. The present
form of the work will no doubt be highly acceptable
to the public. With as much condensation as was
admitted by the nature of the subject, and at a very
moderate expense, the curious researches of Mr.
Layard are here set forth, throwing an interesting
light on numerous topics of Biblical antiquity, and
Oriental customs in general.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Memoirs of the Great Metropolis</hi>,
by <hi rend='smallcaps'>F. Saunders</hi>
(published by G. P. Putnam), is not only a convenient
and instructive guide-book for the traveler in
England, but contains numerous literary allusions
and reminiscences, illustrating the haunts of celebrated
authors. The writer is evidently familiar
with his subject from personal observation; he is at
home in the antique nooks and corners of the British
capital; and, at the same time, making a judicious
use of the best authorities, he has produced a volume
filled with valuable information, and a variety of
amusing matter. We advise our friends who are
about packing up for a European tour to remember
this pleasant book, and if it should not be able to alleviate
the misery of sea-sickness, it will at least
prepare them for an intelligent examination of the
curiosities of London.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Dream Life: A Fable of the Seasons</hi>,
by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ik. Marvel</hi>.
(Published by Charles Scribner.) A new
volume in the same vein of meditative pathos, and
quaint, gentle humor as the delightful <q>Reveries of
a Bachelor,</q>&mdash;perhaps, indeed, bearing too great an
affinity with that unique volume to follow it in such
rapid succession. The daintiest cates most readily
produce a surfeit, and it is not strange that the pure
Hyblæan sweetness of these delicious compositions
should pall upon the sense by a too luxurious indulgence.
With a writer of less variety of resource
than Ik. Marvel, it would not be worth while to advance
such a criticism; but we are perverse enough
to demand of him not only pre-eminence in a favorite
sphere, but a more liberal taste of other qualities, of
which we have often had such pleasant inklings.
</p>

<p>
In this volume we have the <q>Dreams</q> of the Four
Seasons, Boyhood, Youth, Manhood, and Age, in
which the experience of those epochs is set forth in
a soft, imaginative twilight, diversified with passages
of felicitous description, and with genuine strains of
tender, pathetic beauty, which could come only from
the heart of genius. His home-life in the country is
a perpetual source of inspiration to Ik. Marvel, in
his highest and best creations. He describes rural
scenes with a freshness and veracity, which is the
exclusive privilege of early recollections. In this
respect, <q>the child is father to the man.</q> His pages
are fragrant with the clover-fields and new hay, in
which he sported when a child. With feelings unworn
by the world, he lives over again the <q>dreams
of his youth,</q> which are so richly peopled with fair
and sad visions, drawing an abundant supply of materials
for his exquisite imagination to shape, and
reproducing them in forms that are equally admirable
for their tenderness and their truth. What a striking
contrast does he present to those writers who
trust merely to fancy without the experience of life&mdash;whose
rural pictures remind you of nature as much
as the green and red paint of an artificial flower reminds
you of a rose.
</p>

<p>
In the Dedication of this volume to Washington
Irving, the author gracefully alludes to the influence
of that consummate master in enabling him to attain
the <q>facility in the use of language, and the fitness
of expression in which to dress his thoughts,</q> which
any may suppose to be found in his writings. This
is a beautiful testimony, alike honorable to the giver
and the receiver. The frankness with which the acknowledgment
is made, shows a true simplicity of
purpose, altogether above the sphere of a weak personal
vanity. And the contagious action of Mr. Irving's
literary example on susceptible, generous minds
can scarcely be overrated. The writers now on the
stage are more indebted to that noble veteran than
they are apt to remember, for the polished refinement
of expression which he was the first to make the fashion
in this country. They may indeed discover no
more resemblance between Mr. Irving's style and
their own, than there is between that of Mr. Irving
and Ik. Marvel. In this case, we confess, we should
not have suspected the relation alluded to by the
latter. We trace other and stronger influences in
the formation of his style than the example of Mr.
Irving. But the beneficial effect of a great master
of composition is not to be estimated by the resemblance
which it produces to himself. The artist does
not study the works of Raphael or Michael Angelo
in order to imitate their characteristics. His purpose
is rather to catch the spirit of beauty which pervades
their productions, and to learn the secret of method
by which it was embodied. In like manner, the
young writer can not yield himself to the seductive
charm of Mr. Irving's golden periods, and follow the
liquid, melodious flow of his enchanting sentences,
without a revelation of the beautiful mysteries of
expression, and a new sense of the sweetness and
harmony of the language which he is to make his instrument.
He may be entirely free from conscious
imitation, but he has received a virtue which can
not fail to be manifested in his own endeavors. If he
be a man of original genius, like Ik. Marvel, he may
not indicate the source from which his mind has
derived such vigorous impulses; but his obligation
is no less real; though instead of reproducing the
wholesome leaves on which his spirit has fed, he
weaves them into the shining and comely robes that
are at once the dress and the adornment of his own
thoughts.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Florence Sackville</hi> (Harper and Brothers), is the
title of a highly successful English novel, dedicated
to the poet Rogers. In the form of an autobiography,
the heroine relates the incidents of her life, which
are marked by a great variety of experience, including
many passages of terrible suffering and tragic
pathos. The story is sustained with uncommon
power; the characters in the plot are admirably individualized;
showing a deep insight into human
nature, and a rare talent for depicting the recondite
workings of passion. A lofty and pure religious
sentiment pervades the volume, and deepens the
effect of the thrilling narrative.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Clovernook</hi>, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Alice
Carey</hi>. (Published by Red
<pb n='425'/><anchor id='Pg425'/>
field). The author of this series of rural sketches
enjoys a well-earned reputation as a poet of uncommon
imaginative power, with a choice and expressive
diction. Her specimens of prose-writing in this
beautiful volume will serve to enhance her literary
fame. They consist of recollections of Western life,
described with great accuracy of detail, and embellished
with the natural coloring of a picturesque
fancy. Few more characteristic or charming books
have recently issued from the American press.
</p>

<p>
A new edition of that quaint, ingenious allegory,
<hi rend='italic'>Salander and the Dragon</hi>, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Frederic William
Shelton</hi>, has been published by John S. Taylor.
We are glad to find that the originality and fine
moral painting of this remarkable work have found
such just appreciation.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The First Woman</hi> is the title of an instructive
essay on the female character, by Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gardiner
Spring</hi>. It is written with clearness and strength,
and contains several passages of chaste eloquence.
The author would establish the position of woman
on the old platform, without yielding to the modern
outcry for the extension of her rights. (Published
by M. W. Dodd).
</p>

<p>
A volume of <hi rend='italic'>Select Poetry for Children and Youth</hi>,
with an Introduction, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Tryon Edwards</hi>, D.D., is
published by M. W. Dodd. It is based upon an English
selection of acknowledged merit, but with important
additions and improvements by the American
editor. Excellent taste is shown in its preparation,
and it must prove a welcome resource for the mental
entertainment of the family circle.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Sovereigns of the Bible</hi>, by
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Eliza R. Steele</hi>
(published by M. W. Dodd), describes, in simple
narrative style, the influence of monarchy in the
political history of the chosen nation. Closely following
the Old Testament account, it is in a great
measure free from the tawdry finery, gingerbread
work, and German-silver splendor which shine with
such dazzling radiance in many modern attempts to
improve the style of the sacred records.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Snow-Image and Other Twice-told Tales</hi>, by
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Nathaniel Hawthorne</hi>. (Boston: Ticknor, Reed,
and Fields). This collection of stories is introduced
with a racy preface, giving a bit of the author's literary
autobiography. The volume is not inferior in
interest to its fascinating predecessors.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Summerfield; or, Life on a Farm</hi>, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Day
Kellogg Lee</hi>. (Auburn: Derby and Miller). This volume
belongs to an order of composition which requires a
true eye for nature, a genial sympathy with active
life, and a happy command of language for its successful
execution. The present author exhibits no
ordinary degree of these qualities. His book is filled
with lively pictures of country life, presented with
warmth and earnestness of feeling, and singularly
free from affectation and pretense. It finely blends
the instructive with the amusing, aiming at a high
moral purpose, but without the formality of didactic
writing. We give a cordial welcome to the author,
and believe that he will become a favorite in this department
of composition. The volume is issued in
excellent style, and presents a very creditable specimen
of careful typography.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>The Podesta's Daughter and other Poems</hi>, by
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Geo.
H. Boker</hi>. (Philadelphia: A. Hart). The principal
poem in this volume is a dramatic sketch, founded
on Italian life in the Middle Ages. It is written
with terseness and vigor, displaying a chaste and
powerful imagination, with an admirable command
of the appropriate language of poetry. The volume
contains several miscellaneous pieces, including
snatches of songs and sonnets, which evince a genuine
artistic culture, and give a brilliant promise on
the part of the youthful poet.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>What I Saw in New York</hi>, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Joel H. Ross</hi>,
M.D. (Auburn: Derby and Miller). A series of
popular sketches of several of the principal objects
of interest in our <q>Great Metropolis.</q> The author
has walked about the streets with his eyes wide
open, noticing a multiplicity of things which are apt
to escape the negligent observer, and has described
them in a familiar conversational tone, which is not
a little attractive. Strangers who are visiting New
York for the first time will find an abundant store of
convenient information in this well-filled volume&mdash;and
all the better for the agreeable manner in which
it is conveyed.
</p>

<p>
A useful volume for the emigrant and traveler, and
for the student of geography as well, has been issued
by J.H. Colton, entitled <hi rend='italic'>Western
Portraiture</hi>, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Daniel
S. Curtis</hi>. It contains a description of Wisconsin,
Illinois, and Iowa, with remarks on Minnesota,
and other Territories. In addition to the valuable
practical information which it presents in a lucid
manner, it gives several curious pictures of social
life and natural scenery in the West. No one who
wishes to obtain a clear idea of the resources of this
country should fail to consult its very readable pages.
</p>

<p>
One of the most important London publications of
the present season, <hi rend='italic'>Lectures on the History of France</hi>,
by Sir <hi rend='smallcaps'>James Stephen</hi>, is just issued by Harper
and Brothers in one elegant octavo volume. They
were delivered before the University of Cambridge,
and comprise a series of brilliant, discursive commentaries
on the salient points of French history,
from the time of Charlemagne to that of Louis XIV.
Of the twenty-four Lectures which compose the volume,
three are devoted to the <q>Power of the Pen in
France,</q> and discuss in a masterly style, the character
and influence of Abeilard, Bernard, Montaigne,
Descartes, Pascal, and other eminent French writers.
Apart from its valuable political disquisitions, no recent
work can compare with this volume as a contribution
to the history of literature.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Among the works in preparation by Messrs. Black
is a <hi rend='italic'>Memoir of the late Lord Jeffrey</hi>, by his friend Lord
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Cockburn</hi>. This biography will possess peculiar
interest, from Lord Jeffrey's literary position as one
of the originators, and for so many years editor of
the <hi rend='italic'>Edinburgh Review</hi>. His connection with Byron,
originating in fierce hostility, and terminating in
warm friendship, as well as his connection with many
other distinguished men, and the grace of his epistolary
style, will also impart an interesting character
to its contents.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Jerdan</hi> is proceeding rapidly with
his <hi rend='italic'>Autobiography
and Reminiscences</hi>, the commencement of
which will relate to the youth of some of the highest
dignitaries of the law now living, and the sequel will
illustrate, from forty years of intimacy, the character
and acts of George Canning, and nearly all the leading
statesmen, politicians, <foreign rend='italic'>literati</foreign>, and artists, who
have flourished within that period.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
It is reported that Lord <hi rend='smallcaps'>Brougham</hi> is beguiling
his sick leisure at Cannes, with the composition of a
work to be entitled, <hi rend='italic'>France and England before Europe
in 1851</hi>, a social and political parallel of the two
foremost nations of the world.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
An English <hi rend='italic'>Memoir of the Last Emperor of China</hi>
is announced from the pen of Dr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gutzlaff</hi>, the lately-deceased
and well-known missionary to that strange
<pb n='426'/><anchor id='Pg426'/>
empire, from which intelligent tidings are always
welcome.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
A second edition is printing of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Carlyle's</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>Life of
Sterling</hi>. His first book the fine <hi rend='italic'>Life of Schiller</hi>,
took some five-and-twenty years to attain the second-editionship,
which is bestowed upon his latest
book after as many days.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
A second edition is under way of the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Charles
Kingsley's</hi> glowing novel, <hi rend='italic'>Yeast</hi>, which is regarded
by many as the best of all his books, dealing as it
does with the rural scenes and manners which are
familiar to him at first-hand.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The last announcement of a new work in the department
of history or biography is that of a forthcoming
Life of Admiral <hi rend='smallcaps'>Blake</hi>, <q>based almost entirely
on original documents,</q> by Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hepworth
Dixon</hi>, the biographer of <hi rend='smallcaps'>John
Howard</hi> and <hi rend='smallcaps'>William
Penn</hi>, and the delineator of London prisons.
Mr. Dixon has a taste for the selection of <q>safe</q>
subjects, and <hi rend='smallcaps'>Robert Blake</hi> is surely one of the
<q>safest</q> that could be chosen. The Nelson of the
Commonwealth, without Nelson's faults and frailties.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
An elegant translation of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Charles Dickens's</hi>
works, well got up, and well printed, is being published
in Copenhagen. The first part commences
with <hi rend='italic'>David Copperfield</hi>, from the
pen of Herr <hi rend='smallcaps'>Moltke</hi>.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The collected poems of D. M. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Moir</hi>, the <q>Delta</q>
of <hi rend='italic'>Blackwood</hi>, lately deceased, are announced by the
Messrs. Blackwood, with a memoir by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Thomas Aird</hi>.
<q>Delta</q> was an amiable and benevolent surgeon, at
Musselburgh, a little fishing village, a few miles east
of Edinburgh, and had nothing about him of the conceit
which a little literary fame generally begets in
the member of a trifling provincial circle. Whether
his musical and rather melancholy verses will be long
remembered is doubtful; but a tolerably enduring reputation
is probably secured to his <hi rend='italic'>Mansie Wauch</hi>, a
genial portraiture of a Scottish village-original, in its
way quite as racy, though not so caustic, as <hi rend='smallcaps'>Galt's</hi>
best works in the same line. Mr. Thomas Aird,
his biographer, is the editor of a Dumfries newspaper,
and himself a man of original genius. D. M.
Moir, by the way, ought not to be confounded with
his namesake and fellow contributor to <hi rend='italic'>Blackwood</hi>,
<hi rend='smallcaps'>George Moir</hi>, the Edinburgh advocate, a man of
much greater accomplishment, the translator of
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Schiller's</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Wallenstein</hi>,
and author of the <hi rend='italic'>Fragments
from the History of John Bull</hi>, a satire on modern
reform, in the manner of Dean <hi rend='smallcaps'>Swift's</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>Tale of
a Tub</hi>.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The Council of King's College, London, have
appointed Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>James Stephen</hi>, son of Sergeant
Stephen, author of the <hi rend='italic'>Commentaries</hi>, to the Professorship
of English Law and Jurisprudence, vacant
by the resignation of Mr. Bullock.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
At Belfast, the Chair of Logic and Metaphysics has
been, by the Lord Lieutenant, assigned to Dr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>James
M'Cosh</hi>, a minister of the Free Church of Scotland,
author of one of the most profound works that have
appeared of late years&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>The Method of the Divine
Government, Physical and Moral.</hi>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hayward</hi>, the translator of Faust, has written
to <hi rend='italic'>The Morning Chronicle</hi> to insist on the improbability
that there is any truth in a paragraph which
has been going the round of the papers, and which
described the late convert to Catholicism, the fair
and vagrant Ida, Countess von <hi rend='smallcaps'>Hahn-Hahn</hi>, as
parading herself in the streets of Berlin in the guise
of a haggard penitent, literally clad in sackcloth and
ashes!
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Lord <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mahon</hi>, in the last volume of
his <hi rend='italic'>History of
England</hi> that has been published, has a good deal to
say upon Junius, and his decision upon that vexed
topic will be heard with interest: <q>But who was
Junius?... I will not affect to speak with doubt
when no doubt exists in my mind. From the proofs
adduced by others, and on a clear conviction of my
own, I affirm that the author of Junius was no other
than Sir Philip Francis.</q> The <hi rend='italic'>Literary Gazette</hi> also
says, <q>We are as much convinced that Sir Philip
Francis was Junius as that George III. was king of
Great Britain.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
In an elaborate article on the intellectual character
of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Kossuth</hi>, the
<hi rend='italic'>London Athenæum</hi> remarks, <q>Of
the minor merits of this remarkable man, his command
of the English language is perhaps that which
creates the largest amount of wonder. With the exception
of an occasional want of idiom, the use of a
few words in an obsolete sense, and a habit of sometimes
carrying (German fashion) the infinitive verb to
the end of a sentence&mdash;there is little to distinguish
M. Kossuth's English from that of our great masters
of eloquence. Select, yet copious and picturesque,
it is always. The combinations&mdash;we speak of his
words as distinct from the thoughts that lie in them&mdash;are
often very happy. We can even go so far as
to say that he has enriched and utilized our language;
the first by using unusual words with extreme felicity,
the latter by proving to the world how well the pregnant
and flexible tongue of Shakspeare adapts itself
to the expression of a genius and a race so remote
from the Saxon as the Magyar.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The Chancellorship of the Dublin University, vacant
by the death of the King of Hanover, has been conferred
on Lord <hi rend='smallcaps'>John George Beresford</hi>, the primate
of Ireland.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The Scotch Journals announce the death of one
whose name is familiar to many of the scholars of this
country, Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>George Dunbar</hi>, professor of Greek
Literature in the University of Edinburgh.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The Rev. Dr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sadleir</hi>, Fellow and Provost of
Trinity College, Dublin, died suddenly on the 14th
of December, He was a man of liberal views and
charitable feelings, and although in a society not remarkable
for catholicity of spirit, his advocacy of all
measures of progress and freedom was uniform and
zealous. He was appointed to the provostship by the
Crown in 1837.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Among recent deaths of literary men, we note that
of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Basil Montague</hi>, best known as the editor of the
works of Lord Bacon. He was an illegitimate son
of the famous Earl of Sandwich, First Lord of the
Admiralty, by the unfortunate Miss Reay, who was
assassinated in 1779, by the Rev. Mr. Hackman, her
betrothed lover. The tragic story is told in all the
London guide-books, as well as in collections of
celebrated trials. Mr. Basil Montague studied for
the law, and rose to a high standing in the profession.
He was called to the bar by the Honorable Society
of Gray's Inn, in 1798. On the <hi rend='italic'>Law of Bankruptcy</hi>
he published some valuable treatises, the reputation
of which gained him a commissionership. With
<pb n='427'/><anchor id='Pg427'/>
Romilly and Mackintosh he worked diligently for
the mitigation of the severity of the penal code. On
capital punishments he wrote several pamphlets,
which attracted much public notice. Besides his
edition of <hi rend='italic'>Bacon</hi>, with an original biography, he published
<hi rend='italic'>Selections from Taylor, Hooker, Hall, and Bacon</hi>.
He died at Boulogne, on the 27th of November,
in the 82d year of his age.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
From France we can expect no more literature for
some time, and we must think ourselves fortunate that
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Guizot's</hi> two new works reached us before <q>society
was saved,</q> as the man says who has earned the execration
of the world. These two works are <hi rend='italic'>Etudes
Morales</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Etudes sur les Beaux Arts</hi>. The former
contains essays on Immortality, on the state of Religion
in modern society, on Faith, and a lengthy treatise
on Education. The second is interesting, as showing
us Guizot criticising Art.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
A curious work, entitled, <hi rend='italic'>Les Murailles Revolutionnaires</hi>
(Revolutionary Walls), has been published
in Paris. It contains the proclamations, decrees, addresses,
appeals, warnings, denunciations, remonstrances,
counsels, professions of faith, plans of political
reconstruction, and schemes of social regeneration,
which were stuck on the walls of Paris in the
first few months' agitated existence of the Revolution
of 1848. At that time the dead walls of <hi rend='italic'>la grande
ville</hi> presented an extraordinary spectacle. They
were literally covered with placards of all sizes, all
shapes, all colors, all sorts of type, and some were
even in manuscript. Several times in the course of
a day was the paper renewed; and so attractive was
the reading it offered to every passer-by, that it not
only put an end to the sale of books, but nearly ruined
circulating libraries and <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>salons
de lecture</foreign>, in which,
for the moderate charge of from two to five sous,
worthy citizens are accustomed to read the journals.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Louis Napoleon</hi> has changed all that. Among other
wondrous decrees that have issued from his barracks,
is <q>Bill-Stickers Beware!</q> The usurper sees
danger in the very poles and paste of an
<foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>afficheur</foreign>!
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
There is in Paris, under the sole direction of an
ecclesiastic, the Abbé <hi rend='smallcaps'>Migne</hi>, an establishment embracing
a printing office, stereotype foundry, and all
other departments of book manufacture, which has in
course of publication a complete series of the chief
works of Catholic literature, amounting to 2000 volumes,
and the prices are such that the mass of the
clergy of that faith may possess the whole.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Lamartine</hi> has given us the third and fourth volumes
of his <hi rend='italic'>Histoire de la
Restauration</hi>; <hi rend='smallcaps'>Barante</hi>,
the third volume of his <hi rend='italic'>Histoire de la Convention</hi>,
bringing the narrative down to 1793. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Thierry</hi> announces
a new edition of his works; and <hi rend='smallcaps'>Alexandre
Dumas</hi> has commenced his <hi rend='italic'>Mémoires</hi> in<hi rend='italic'> La
Presse</hi>.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The most striking of French novels, or of any novels
recently published, is the <hi rend='italic'>Revenants</hi> (<q>Ghosts</q>),
of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Alexandre Dumas</hi> the younger, which exceeds
in cleverness, ingenuity, and absurdity all the novels
put together of his prolific parent himself. The heroes
and heroines of the <hi rend='italic'>Revenants</hi> are those of three
of the most celebrated tales of last century, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Goethe's</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>Werther</hi>, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bernardin
St. Pierre's</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Paul and Virginia</hi>,
and the Abbé <hi rend='smallcaps'>Prevost's</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Manon L'Escaut</hi>.
The book opens with a description of a visit paid by
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Mustel</hi>, a German professor, to
his old pupil <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bernardin
Saint-pierre</hi>, now living at Paris in the
sunshine of the fame procured to him by the publication
of <hi rend='italic'>Paul and Virginia</hi>.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
It has been remarked that the name of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bonaparte</hi>
is unlucky to literature, for they do not understand
that, to flourish, literature requires freedom. No king
or emperor, if he had all the gold of Peru, could
nowadays do as much for literature as the public;
and, to please the public, it must be completely free.
<q>Now,</q> writes the Paris correspondent of the <hi rend='italic'>Literary
Gazette</hi>, <q>if the illustrious Monsieur Bonaparte
can make good his position in France, he <emph>must</emph> be a
despot. On no other ground could he stand for a
week&mdash;it is <foreign rend='italic'>aut Cæsar aut nullus</foreign> with him. And,
unfortunately, unlike most despots, he has no taste
whatever for literature&mdash;he never, it is said, read
fifty lines of poetry in his life, and can not even now
wade through half-a-dozen pages of prose without
falling asleep.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Silvio Pellico</hi>, so famous for his works, his imprisonments,
and sufferings, is now in Paris.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Three novels are announced by a German authoress,
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Carolina von Göhren</hi>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Ottomar</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Victor, and
Thora</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>Glieder einer Kelte</hi>. The authoress
(whose real name is Frau von <hi rend='smallcaps'>Zöllner</hi>) is a lady
of noble family, who has married a man of <q>no
family,</q> and has <emph>not</emph> died of the
<foreign rend='italic'>mésalliance</foreign>. She is
well known in the best circles of Dresden, and has
lately taken to fill her leisure with writing novels,
which she does with considerable skill. Her compatriot
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Hahn-Hahn</hi>, by her languid airs of haughty
aristocracy, seems to have roused the scorn of Frau
von <hi rend='smallcaps'>Zöllner</hi>, who attacks her with great spirit.
The new writer commands the sympathy of English
readers by her good, plain common sense, and the
moral tendency of her books.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The scientific literature both of Germany and
England is about to be enriched by a translation of
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Oersted's</hi> chief work, <q>The Soul in Nature.</q>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Cotta</hi>, of Stuttgard and Tübingen, is to publish the
one, and Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bohn</hi> the other.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
A German translation is announced of the lately
deceased Danish poet, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Oehlenschlager's</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>Autobiographical
Reminiscences</hi>. Oehlenschlager has an
old reputation in this country as the author of the
fine-art drama, <q>Correggio,</q> and of a still finer theatrical
version of the Arabian Nights' tale, <q>Aladdin
and the Wonderful Lamp,</q> both of which were introduced
to the public a quarter of a century ago in
<hi rend='italic'>Blackwood's Magazine</hi>. During his lifetime, he published
a portion of his autobiography, which was
very interesting and unaffected; and we can predict
a fair popularity to the now completed work.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Of German fictions, the one that has made the
most noise lately is the long-announced novel by
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Wolfgang Menzel</hi>, the well-known historian,
journalist, and critic, entitled <hi rend='italic'>Furore: Geschichte
eines Mönchs und einer Nonne aus dem dreissigjährigen
Kriege</hi> (<q>Story of a Monk and a Nun from the
period of the Thirty Years' War</q>), which the German
critics praise as a lively and variegated picture
of that period of turmoil and confusion.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Heine's</hi> new work,
<hi rend='italic'>Romanzero</hi>, has been prohibited
at Berlin, and the copies in the booksellers,
shops confiscated. The sale of eight thousand copies
before it was prohibited is a practical assurance of
its brilliant success. Gay, sarcastic, and poetic, it
<pb n='428'/><anchor id='Pg428'/>
resembles all his previous works in spirit, though
less finished in form. His <hi rend='italic'>Faust</hi> turns out to be a
Ballet, with Mephistopheles metamorphosed into a
Danseuse! In the letter which concludes the work
there is much interesting matter on the <hi rend='italic'>Faust Saga</hi>,
and its mode of treatment.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The people of Leipzig have just had their <q>Schiller-fest,</q>
or Schiller's festival, in honor of the great
national poet and tragedian. Schiller was, indeed, a
native of Würtemberg, and he lived in Mannheim
and Weimar. But Germany, which has no metropolis,
enjoys a great many <emph>capitals</emph>: and as the ancients
had a god of the sun, the moon, and the various
constellations, so do the Germans have a capital
of poetic art, another of music, another of painting,
and so on. Leipzig is, or pretends to be, the great
literary metropolis, and in this capacity the good
city holds an annual festival in honor of Schiller.
On the present occasion there was a public dinner,
with pompous speeches by Messrs. Gutzkow, Bothe,
and Apel, while in the Leipzig theatre Shakspeare's
<q>Macbeth</q> was given in Schiller's adaptation to the
German stage.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The Berlin journals announce the arrival in that
city of Doctor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Zahn</hi>, so well known for his researches
in Pompeii and Herculaneum. His work thereon is
one of the most important archæological productions
extant. He has passed not fewer than twenty-five
years of his life among those ancient ruins.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The foreign obituary includes the name of Dr.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Meinhold</hi>&mdash;a name which will live in connection
with <hi rend='italic'>The Amber Witch</hi> and with the singular circumstances
attending the reception of that powerful
tale.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The English admirers of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Humboldt's</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Kosmos</hi>
will be glad to learn that an important addition has
been made to the commentaries on that great work,
by Herr Bronne's <q>Collection of Maps for the Kosmos.</q>
The first series, containing six plates, has
just been published by Krais and Hoffmann, at Stuttgardt.
These six plates are to be followed by thirty-six
others, and contain the planetary, solar, and lunar
systems, the plain globes, and the body of the earth,
and the elevations of its surface, with a variety of
diagrams, and a set of explanatory notes.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
An intelligent and appreciative German, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Siegfried
Kupper</hi>, has been attracted by the fine simplicities
and interests of the popular poetry of Servia, and
has woven together, out of the lays which commemorate
the Achilles-Ulysses-Hercules-Leonidas of Servia,
<hi rend='italic'>Lazar, der Serbenczar. Ein Helden-gedicht</hi> <q>Lazar,
the Czar of the Serbs. A Heroic poem.</q> <q>Among
the earliest announcers of the beauty of the Servian
popular poetry,</q> says the <hi rend='italic'>London Literary Journal</hi>,
<q>was <hi rend='smallcaps'>Theresa Jakob</hi>, the daughter of the well-known
German Professor, and now for many years
married to the American Dr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Robinson</hi>, the author
of <hi rend='italic'>Biblical Researches in Palestine</hi>. This lady (a
translation of whose History of the Colonization of
America we lately reviewed) published, five-and-twenty
years ago, some translated specimens of
Servian song, which quite took captive the heart of
old <hi rend='smallcaps'>Goethe</hi>, whose praises introduced them to the
notice of educated Europe. Other Germans, and
even some Frenchmen, followed in the same direction;
and our own <hi rend='smallcaps'>Bowring's</hi> <hi rend='italic'>Specimens of Servian
Poetry</hi>, is probably familiar to many readers. With
the growing importance of the Slavonian tribes, a
new interest attaches to their copious literature; and
to any enterprising young <hi rend='italic'>litterateur</hi>, in quest of an
unexplored field of research, we would recommend
the poetry, recent and ancient, of the Slavonic
races.</q>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The Council of the Shakspeare Society have
received a very welcome and unexpected present,
in the shape of a translation of Shakspeare, in
twelve volumes 8vo., into Swedish verse. This laborious
work has been accomplished by Professor
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Hagberg</hi>, of the University of Lund, and it was
transmitted through the Swedish Minister resident
in London.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
A Signor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Antonio Caccia</hi>, an Italian exile, sends
from the freer press of Leipzig, a book of practical
and philosophic travel: <hi rend='italic'>Europa ed America. Scene
della Vita dal 1848 al 1850</hi> (<q>Europe and America,
Scenes from Life in both hemispheres during the
years 1848-50</q>), which contains, besides a notice of
California, a good many useful hints to travelers.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
The librarian of the Emperor of Russia has purchased,
for the Imperial Library, a complete collection
of all the pamphlets, placards, caricatures, songs,
&amp;c, published at Berlin during the revolutionary
movement of 1848.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Dr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Smith</hi>, bishop of Victoria, Hong Kong, has
sent to the library of the Society for Promoting Christian
Knowledge, a Chinese work <hi rend='italic'>On the Geography
and History of Foreign Nations</hi>, by <hi rend='smallcaps'>Seu-ke-yu</hi>, Governor
of the province of Fokeen. Seu-ke-yu is a
man of high official station, a distinguished scholar,
and very liberal in his views. He commences the
geographical part of his book with a statement of the
spherical form of the earth, as opposed to the universal
belief in China of its being a vast level area,
of which the Celestial Empire occupies the central
and most considerable part. Numerous maps illustrate
the text, being tolerably correct copies from
European atlases, the names given in Chinese characters.
The work is in six volumes, very well
printed, and instead of binding, each part is contained
in a wooden case, ingeniously folding, and fastened
with ivory pins.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
When the department of the Ministry of Public
Instruction was created some four or five years ago
in Constantinople, it became apparent that there existed
a great desideratum of Moslem civilization,
necessary to be supplied as soon as possible&mdash;a Turkish
Vocabulary and a Turkish Grammar compiled
according to the high development of philology. The
Grammar has now been published; being compiled
by Fuad Effendi, <foreign rend='italic'>mustesher</foreign> of the Grand Vizier, a man
known for his high attainments&mdash;assisted by Ahmed
Djesvid Effendi, another member of the Council of
Instruction. The work has been printed at Constantinople,
and translations will be made into several
languages: the French edition being now in preparation
by two gentlemen belonging to the Foreign
Office of the Sublime Porte, who have obtained a
privilege of ten years for its sale.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
Among the new works just out, we notice a Spanish
translation of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Ticknor's</hi>
<hi rend='italic'>History of Spanish Literature</hi>,
by Don <hi rend='smallcaps'>Pascual de Gayangos</hi> y <hi rend='smallcaps'>Don Enrique
De Vedia</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>con adiciones y notas criticas</hi>), Mr
Ticknor having communicated some notes and corrections
to the two translators, who have added from
their own stores.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='429'/><anchor id='Pg429'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>A Leaf from Punch</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p429.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>A Horrible Business.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Master Butcher</hi>.&mdash;<q>Did you take
Old Major Dumblebore's Ribs to No. 12?</q>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Boy</hi>.&mdash;<q>Yes, Sir.</q>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Master Butcher</hi>.&mdash;<q>Then, cut
Miss Wiggle's Shoulder and Neck, and hang Mr. Foodle's Legs till they're quite
tender.</q></head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<div>
<head>Rather Too Much Of A Good Thing.</head>

<p>
We see advertised some <q>Crying Dolls.</q> We
must protest against this new kind of amusement.
Just as if the real thing was not enough,
but we are to have an addition to an evil, that is
already sufficiently <q>crying</q> in every household.
We wish the inventor of this new toy (which
might be called <q>the Disturber of the Peace of
Private Families</q>) to be woke up regularly in
the middle of the night, for the next twelve
months to come, by one of his own <q>Crying
Dolls,</q> and then he will be able to see how he
likes it. Let one of the Dolls also be <q>Teething;</q>
for we should not be astonished now to
hear of <q>Teething Dolls,</q> and <q>Coughing and
Choking Dolls,</q> with other infantine varieties, and
then the punishment of this <q>monster in human
form</q> will be complete. Dr. Guillotine perished
by the instrument he invented. The inventor of
the <q>Crying Dolls</q> deserves a similar fate. He
should be shut up with all his toys in <q>full cry,</q>
until, like Niobe, the crying was the death of
him, and he was turned, by some offended mythological
deity, into the <q>great pump,</q> of which
his invention proclaims him to be the effigy.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='430'/><anchor id='Pg430'/>

<div>
<head>Mrs. Baker's Pet.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p430.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Mrs. Baker, feeling lonely during her husband's
absence at his business, has purchased
a dog in the streets for a Pet. The
animal has been brought home, and Mrs. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Baker</hi>
has been for some time anxiously awaiting the
arrival of the husband to dinner, to introduce
him to her new favorite. The gentleman's latch
key has been heard in the door, and Cook has
received orders to dish the dinner. Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Baker</hi>,
Mrs. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Baker</hi>, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mary</hi>
the Servant, and <hi rend='smallcaps'>Scamp</hi> the
Pet meet at the door of the dining-room. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Scamp</hi>
commences an infuriated assault of barks and
springs, meant for the inoffensive and astonished
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Baker</hi>, but which have all the appearance of
being directed against <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mary</hi>, who is entering at
the moment with the dinner-plates. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mary</hi> drops
the plates, smashing two, and begins screaming.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Scamp</hi>, excited by the row, redoubles his barks,
and bounds to and fro on the door mat. Mr.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Baker</hi>, who has heard nothing of the dog, is
naturally indignant at the reception, and commences
an assault upon him with his umbrella.
Mrs. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Baker</hi>, who feels that the reputation of her
Pet is at stake, endeavors to soothe him by ordering
him to <q>Lie down, and be a good dog;</q> but
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Scamp</hi> is insensible to the power of moral suasion.
A domestic representation of the old play of
<q>Family Jars,</q> takes place; the leading parts
by Mr. and Mrs. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Baker</hi> <q>for the first time;</q> the
orchestra under the direction of <hi rend='smallcaps'>Mary</hi>
and <hi rend='smallcaps'>Scamp</hi>.
The performance lasts till bed-time; when the
gentleman insists that the dog shall pass the
night in the yard. This does not meet <hi rend='smallcaps'>Scamp's</hi>
approbation, and he expresses his discontent, by
a serenade under the windows of Mr. and Mrs.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Baker's</hi> bedroom, which lasts the whole night,
and consists in running up and down the howling
scale, winding up with a prolonged shake in
C above the line. The performance is enlivened
by the perpetual raising of the windows from
the neighbors' houses, and an occasional crash
in Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Baker's</hi> yard, which is accounted for the
next day by the appearance of half a score of
boot-jacks of various sizes and patterns.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='431'/><anchor id='Pg431'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Fashions for February.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p431.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head><hi rend='smallcaps'>Figures 1 and 2</hi>.&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>Walking and In-door Dresses</hi>.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Figure</hi> 1.&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>Walking
Dress</hi>.&mdash;The bonnet is
made of terry velvet; the brim is very open at
the sides, so as to show the face well, and comes
forward at top. The crown is not very deep; it is
covered in the first place with a piece of terry velvet,
the shape of which resembles a hood, trimmed with
black lace two and a half inches wide, and hanging
over the curtain. The curtain reaches very high,
and falls almost straight, with scarcely any fullness.
It is edged all round with lace about an inch wide.
Two felted feathers spring from between the hood
and the crown, one toward the right, the other toward
the left, and entwined together. The inside
of the front is trimmed with narrow velvet ribbons
and black lace. The sides at the cheeks are filled
with bunches of pink volubilis, and loops of black
velvet. These bunches of flowers hang down the
front with two velvet ends.
</p>

<p>
Mantle and dress of cloth trimmed with velvet;
the mantle is rounded behind and very full. It belongs
to the Talma style. The neck is terminated
by a little upright collar barely an inch in height,
which rises a little on the cravat. The front is
closed by three little bands with two button-holes,
which are fastened over velvet buttons. The front
corners are cut square, but rather sloping, so as to
form a point. An inch from the edge a velvet ribbon
two inches wide is sewed on flat.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Figure</hi> 2.&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>In-door
Dress</hi>.&mdash;The head-dress is
a Louis XV. puff, made of white blond, satin and
velvet ribbons, set on the head. The top consists
of two cross bands of ribbon. The round part is
formed of two rows of blond flutes. Each of these
rows is ornamented with bows of No. 1 velvet. The
first row violet, the second yellow. Large bunches
of loops of wide satin ribbon, violet and yellow, fill
the sides and hollows of the bands; on each side
full ribbons which are placed across the head.
</p>

<p>
Black vest with lappets. This garment sits very
close; the skirts are open at the sides and behind,
but lap over each other. Satin piping all round the
edges. The front is trimmed with two small satin
pipings, like frogs, each terminating with a satin
button. These sleeves have an elbow, are short,
<pb n='432'/><anchor id='Pg432'/>
and end in a cuff, opened up the side, and trimmed
with three small flaps in satin piping.
</p>

<p>
Waistcoat of yellow valencias buttoning up straight,
with small buttons of the same.
</p>

<p>
Skirt of silk cloth, is very full, but the plaits are
pressed down and kept flat on the hips so as not to
swell out, or raise the lappets. These last can be
made to sit well by making them lie smooth on the
hips. Chemisette composed of two rows of embroidered
muslin, fluted and kept up by a satin cravat,
tied like a gentleman's. Three ample rows of embroidered
muslin, form the trimming of the under-sleeve.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p432.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <head><hi rend='smallcaps'>Figure</hi> 3.&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>Evening
Dress</hi>.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Evening Dress</hi>.&mdash;Head-dress of hair only, with
a diamond comb. The hair is parted down the middle,
and drawn back square from the forehead on
each side. One large plat of hair is laid round the
top of the head. The back hair is done up in plats
and torsades twisted together. The comb is put in
straight, and stands rather high. A cashmere <hi rend='italic'>Orientale</hi>.
This short garment is cut straight and not hollowed
at the waist; it reaches several inches below
the hips; the sides are slit up; the sleeves are wide
at bottom and open in front. A band of gold lace,
about an inch wide, is laid flat all round, about half
an inch from the edge, and the same on the sleeves.
Two buttons of silk and gold each fasten a small
cord ending in a handsome tassel, surmounted by
small bows of silk and gold of various sizes. This
cord is tied in front. The openings of the sleeves
and sides are trimmed in the same manner. The
lining is white satin.
</p>

<p>
Dress of white lutestring. Body low and square,
trimmed with several rows of white blond. The top
of the skirt is plain for a depth of six or seven inches,
and all the lower part is trimmed with vandyked
blond flounces. The flounces are very light.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Full-dress for Home</hi>.&mdash;The cap is a Louis XV.
<hi rend='italic'>fanchon</hi> of <hi rend='italic'>Alençon</hi> lace. There are two
tufts of various flowers on each side; they lie on the bands
of hair which are waved and thrown back.
</p>

<pb n='433'/><anchor id='Pg433'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/p433.png' rend='width: 70%'>
    <head><hi rend='smallcaps'>Figure</hi> 4.&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>Full-dress
for Home</hi>.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Waistcoat of black watered silk; festooned edges,
high behind, open in front. A row of <hi rend='italic'>Alençon</hi> lace
sewed on flat projects beyond the edge all round the
waistcoat. <hi rend='italic'>Basquine</hi> of terry velvet, trimmed with
a broad satin ribbon and plaid velvet of bright colors.
The sleeve, wide at bottom, is open behind and
trimmed the same. The trimming is drawn in very
fine gathers in the middle; the quilled edges are
loose.
</p>

<p>
The skirt of terry velvet like that of the basquine,
is trimmed with five flounces lying one on the other.
On these flounces are sewed satin ribbons and plaid
velvet bands, the top one No. 12, the two others, No.
16, the bottom one No. 22. These ribbons are sewed
flat on the flounce, which is not gathered in that part;
the gathers of the flounces are preserved between the
flat parts. The interval between the ribbons is equal
to twice their width. The under-sleeves follow the
shape of the others, and have two rows of <hi rend='italic'>Alençon</hi>
lace.
</p>

<p>
We have nothing new to report respecting the
Bloomer costume. The following clever parody of
Hamlet's soliloquy, is quite ingenious:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l>To wear or not to wear the Bloomer costume, that's the question.</l>
<l>Whether 'tis nobler in us girls to suffer</l>
<l>The inconveniences of the long-skirt dress,</l>
<l>Or cut it off against these muddy troubles,</l>
<l>And, by the cutting, end them. 'Tis a consummation</l>
<l>Devoutly to be wished. To don the pants:&mdash;</l>
<l>The pants! perchance the boots! Ay, there's the rub.</l>
<l>For in those pants and boots what jeers may come,</l>
<l>When we have shuffled off these untold skirts</l>
<l>Must give us pause. There's the respect</l>
<l>That makes calamity of so long a custom,</l>
<l>For who could bear the scoffs and jeers of boys&mdash;</l>
<l>The old maid's scandal&mdash;the young man's laughter&mdash;</l>
<l>The sidelong leers, and derision's mock,</l>
<l>The insolent press, and all the spurns</l>
<l>We Bloomers of these boobies take!</l>
<l>Who would the old dress wear,</l>
<l>To groan and toil under the weary load,</l>
<l>But that the dread of something after it&mdash;</l>
<l>Of ankles large, of crooked leg, from which</l>
<l>Not all escape, puzzles the will,</l>
<l>And makes us rather wear the dress we have</l>
<l>Than turn out Bloomers.</l>
</lg>
</quote>

</div>

</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
